---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-29 08:54:12 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Oscillations in MAPK cascade triggered by two distinct designs of coupled positive and negative feedback loops</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="For more than a decade, the MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) cascade has been studied using mathematical modelling and quantitative experimentation [1]. The MAPK cascade relays the presence of extracellular stimuli such as growth hormones to the nucleus and controls the expression of hundreds of genes. MAPKs control major cell fate decisions such as proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis, mainly by inducing alterations in gene expression. In this chapter, we discuss how systems biology analysis provides insights into the functioning of this cascade. We show how this pathway assists the cell in responding properly to extracellular cues by filtering out sub-threshold stimuli, while efficiently transmitting physiologically relevant inputs. Several different receptors signal through the MAPK pathway even though they elicit opposite biological responses, thus raising the question of how specificity is achieved in MAPK signalling. Experimental studies revealed that specific biological responses are encoded by quantitative aspects of the MAPK signal such as amplitude or duration. We discuss mechanisms that enable the pathway to generate quantitatively different signals, and also explain how different signals are interpreted by the downstream gene expression machinery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6240690e740bb11ac1d42f43f91ffcfad059dbaf" target='_blank'>Systems analysis of MAPK signal transduction.</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Blüthgen, S. Legewie
          </td>
          <td>2008-09-30</td>
          <td>Essays in biochemistry</td>
          <td>68</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mitogen‐activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades process a myriad of stimuli received by cell‐surface receptors and generate precise spatiotemporal guidance for multiple target proteins, dictating receptor‐specific cellular outcomes. Computational modeling reveals that the intrinsic topology of MAPK cascades enables them to amplify signal sensitivity and amplitude, reduce noise, and display intricate dynamic properties, which include toggle switches, excitation pulses, and oscillations. Specificity of signaling responses can be brought about by signal‐induced feedback and feedforward wiring imposed on the MAPK cascade backbone. Intracellular gradients of protein activities arise from the spatial separation of opposing reactions in kinase‐phosphatase cycles. The membrane confinement of the initiating kinase in MAPK cascades and cytosolic localization of phosphatases can result in precipitous gradients of phosphorylated signal‐transducers if they spread solely by diffusion. Endocytotic trafficking of active kinases driven by molecular motors and traveling waves of protein phosphorylation can propagate phosphorylation signals from the plasma membrane to the nucleus, especially in large cells, such as Xenopus eggs. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/549f0ea398377e29460e84284cf31387d6568803" target='_blank'>Four‐dimensional dynamics of MAPK information‐processing systems</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Kholodenko, M. Birtwistle
          </td>
          <td>2009-07-01</td>
          <td>Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/da87720f4767a44da3f92e497492607a5e8a082c" target='_blank'>When kinases meet mathematics: the systems biology of MAPK signalling</a></td>
          <td>
            W. Kolch, Muffy Calder, David R. Gilbert
          </td>
          <td>2005-03-21</td>
          <td>FEBS Letters</td>
          <td>190</td>
          <td>86</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is considered to be a central block in many biological signaling networks. Despite the common core cascade structure, the activation of MAPK in different biological systems can exhibit different types of dynamic behaviors. Computer modeling may help to reveal the mechanisms underlying such variations. However, so far most computational models of the MAPK cascade have been system-specific, or to reflect a particular type among the wide spectrum of possible dynamics. To obtain a general and integrated view of the relationship between the dynamics of MAPK activation and the structures and parameters of the MAPK cascade, we constructed a generic model by comparing previous models covering different specific biological systems. We assumed that reliable qualitative results could be predicted through a qualitative model with pseudo parameters. We used randomly sampled parameters instead of a specific set of “best-fit” parameters to avoid biases towards any particular systems. A range of dynamics behaviors for MAPK activation, including ultrasensitivity, bistability, transient activation and oscillation, were successfully predicted by the generic model. The results indicated that the steady state dynamics (ultrasensitivity and bistability) was jointly determined by the three-tiered structure of the MAPK cascade and the competitive substrate binding in the dual-phosphorylation processes of the central components, while the temporal dynamics (transient activation and oscillation) was mainly affected by the upstream signaling pathway and feedbacks. Moreover, MAPK kinase (MAPKK) played more important roles than the other two components in determining the dynamics of MAPK activation. We hypothesize that this is an important and advantageous property for the regulation and for the functional diversity of MAPK pathways in real cells. Finally, to assist developing generic models for signaling motifs through model comparisons, we proposed a reaction-based database to make the model data more flexible and interoperable.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/558a5c17bf4b19875b0696b35de9a583a6c40956" target='_blank'>Random Parameter Sampling of a Generic Three-Tier MAPK Cascade Model Reveals Major Factors Affecting Its Versatile Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhong Mai, Haiyan Liu
          </td>
          <td>2013-01-24</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/19ea531f407b034c82262a3c743a3f5575d55e9b" target='_blank'>Quantitative analysis of signaling networks.</a></td>
          <td>
            Herbert M. Sauro, B. Kholodenko
          </td>
          <td>2004-09-01</td>
          <td>Progress in biophysics and molecular biology</td>
          <td>213</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="All cells receive and respond to signals from their environment, whether they live freely or are part of a tissue. Feedback loops are one among the interactions in signal-transduction cascades, in which the information from the downstream components is sent back to the upstream components of the system. Crosstalks between signal-transduction cascades are able to combine the information's received and processed to trigger the appropriate response. To understand how signaling networks make decisions, the dynamic interactions of proteins in the signal-transduction cascades are important rather than just creating static maps of pathways. Based on reaction kinetics, we have developed mathematical models to predict and analyze the impacts of the feedback loops in JNK cascades and the crosstalks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades. Feedback loops in JNK cascades and crosstalks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades plays the complementary roles in making the impacts on the activation of JNK and P38 kinases. JNK and P38 kinase cascades with feedbacks and crosstalks is a robust system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2880a4c0be242db0837a9696c152f250827dd584" target='_blank'>Dynamic Modeling and Simulation of JNK and P38 Kinase Cascades With Feedbacks and Crosstalks</a></td>
          <td>
            Pandurangan Sundaramurthy, S. Gakkhar
          </td>
          <td>2010-08-19</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on NanoBioscience</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Despite much effort, identification of modular structures and study of their organizing and functional roles remain a formidable challenge in molecular systems biology, which, however, is essential in reaching a systematic understanding of large-scale cell regulation networks and hence gaining capacity of exerting effective interference to cell activity. Combining graph theoretic methods with available dynamics information, we successfully retrieved multiple feedback modules of three important signaling networks. These feedbacks are structurally arranged in a hierarchical way and dynamically produce layered temporal profiles of output signals. We found that global and local feedbacks act in very different ways and on distinct features of the information flow conveyed by signal transduction but work highly coordinately to implement specific biological functions. The redundancy embodied with multiple signal-relaying channels and feedback controls bestow great robustness and the reaction hubs seated at junctions of different paths announce their paramount importance through exquisite parameter management. The current investigation reveals intriguing general features of the organization of cell signaling networks and their relevance to biological function, which may find interesting applications in analysis, design and control of bio-networks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f1a36176cecd70b5b2e37e209eede6e52ee5091" target='_blank'>Hierarchical Feedback Modules and Reaction Hubs in Cell Signaling Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Jianfeng Xu, Y. Lan
          </td>
          <td>2015-05-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Operating regimes characterizing the input-output behaviour of an activated phosphorylation-dephosphorylation reaction cycle (PdPC) such as a single MAPK cascade are dictated by the saturated/unsaturated state of the two underlying enzymatic reactions. Four combinations of the states of these two enzymatic reactions led to identification of distinct operating regimes, viz., Hyperbolic (H), Signal transducing (ST), Threshold-hyperbolic (TH) and Ultrasensitive (U). A single PdPC without an explicit feedback have been classically viewed as a module offering signal flow from upstream to downstream, that is, one-way communication. Recently it has been shown that load due to sequestration of the phosphorylated or unphosphorylated form of the substrate by corresponding downstream targets permits retroactive signalling that offers two-way communication. We systematically characterize the operating regimes of a single PdPC subject to retroactivity in either of the substrate forms. We identify five possible regime transitions that could be achieved by increasing the retroactivity strength on either of the two substrate forms. Remarkably, a retroactivity strength of 0.30 in the unphosphorylated form of the substrate is sufficient to induce a transition from ST to H regime indicating that the input-output behaviour of a PdPC is highly sensitive to the presence of a downstream load. Using sensitivity and rate-balance analysis, we show that modulation of the saturation levels of the two enzymatic reactions by increasing retroactivity is the fundamental mechanism governing operating regime transition. Highlights Characterization of operating regimes in the presence of retroactivity. Retroactivity can induce a transition between different operating regimes. Saturation levels of the two enzymatic reactions govern the regime transition. Sensitivity of the protein levels to retroactivity is dictated by saturation levels.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b4d027423ced733f8825b5661c384cf2168e2289" target='_blank'>Retroactivity induced operating regime transition in a phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle</a></td>
          <td>
            Akshay N. Parundekar, G. Viswanathan
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-02</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Molecular pathways are a part of a remarkable hierarchy of regulatory networks that operate at all levels of organisation. These regulatory networks are responsible for much of the biological complexity within the cell. The dynamic character of these pathways and the prevalence of feedback regulation strategies in their operation make them amenable to systematic mathematical analysis using the same tools that have been used with success in analysing and designing engineering control systems. In this article, we aim at establishing this strong connection through various examples where the behaviour exhibited by gene networks is explained in terms of their underlying control strategies. We complement our analysis by a survey of mathematical techniques commonly used to model gene regulatory networks and analyse their dynamic behaviour.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2d5e3f11b60cbe9b68d7797c693397c0dd483f9f" target='_blank'>Modelling and analysis of gene regulatory network using feedback control theory</a></td>
          <td>
            H. El-Samad, M. Khammash
          </td>
          <td>2010-01-01</td>
          <td>International Journal of Systems Science</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/191f8aa325b96b6e58a5ca39c766f19650b93b17" target='_blank'>A systematic framework for the design of reduced-order models for signal transduction pathways from a control theoretic perspective</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Maurya, Santhoji Katare, P. Patkar, A. Rundell, V. Venkatasubramanian
          </td>
          <td>2006-01-15</td>
          <td>Comput. Chem. Eng.</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0c52c2aeead26114cff15e7ec59228f8572c6dfb" target='_blank'>The combination of the functionalities of feedback circuits is determinant for the attractors’ number and size in pathway-like Boolean networks</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Azpeitia, Stalin Muñoz, D. González‐Tokman, M. Martínez-Sánchez, Nathan Weinstein, A. Naldi, E. Álvarez-Buylla, D. Rosenblueth, L. Mendoza
          </td>
          <td>2017-02-10</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>43</td>
          <td>55</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Regulatory circuits are found at the basis of all non-trivial dynamical properties of biological networks. More specifically, positive circuits are involved in the generation of multiple differentiated states, whereas negative circuits can generate cyclic or homeostatic behaviours. These notions are briefly reviewed, from initial biological formulations to mathematical formalisations, further encompassing their application to the design of synthetic regulatory systems. Finally, current challenges for the analysis of increasingly complex regulatory networks are indicated, as well as prospects for our understanding of development and evolution.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0b91d70b28568f649e22fffd1e4c83e23ed6ba54" target='_blank'>Dynamical roles of biological regulatory circuits</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Thieffry
          </td>
          <td>2007-07-01</td>
          <td>Briefings in bioinformatics</td>
          <td>109</td>
          <td>55</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="System dynamics is a popular approach in many fields of science and technology, but it has not been investigated for cell signaling pathways yet. It is a well formulated methodology used to analyze the components of a system considering the cause-effect relationships. The two main components of system dynamics modeling, Causal Loop and Stocks-Flow diagrams, make possible to model the dynamics of the system with the ability to analyze it both qualitatively and quantitatively. In this paper, after introducing the system dynamics modeling approach, and giving a simple example from its usage for Michaelis Menton reactions, a three-step process is proposed for signal transduction modeling. Then in a complete example, it is applied to a case study in cell signaling pathways, namely the RKIP Influence on the ERK signaling pathway and the results is compared with an integrative modeling approach based on Petri net and ODEs. Computational simulations show the success of the system dynamic in easier and effective modeling of the cell signaling pathways, in addition to its diverse options for understanding and testing the pathway quantitatively and quantitatively at the same time in relation to other methods. More intestinally, the suggested approach here helps one to identify all biochemical reaction paths and loops for complex cell signaling pathways. It will be a good step forward to define dominant systems for such complex cell signaling pathways.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e4149b50e4189896acbe292b78085dbf48d60c22" target='_blank'>Causal loop and Stock-Flow Modeling of Signal Transduction Pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Sulaimany, G. Bidkhori, Sarbaz H. A. Khoshnaw
          </td>
          <td>2024-09-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7821c67048fc640f87b6ba2e835a4f63ffa7ff71" target='_blank'>Identification of feedback loops embedded in cellular circuits by investigating non-causal impulse response components</a></td>
          <td>
            Chao-yi Dong, T. Yoon, D. Bates, Kwang-Hyun Cho
          </td>
          <td>2010-02-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Mathematical Biology</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>44</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="One challenge in biology is to make sense of the complexity of biological networks. A good system to approach this is signaling pathways, whose well-characterized molecular details allow us to relate the internal processes of each pathway to their input-output behavior. In this study, we analyzed mathematical models of three metazoan signaling pathways: the canonical Wnt, MAPK/ERK, and Tgfβ pathways. We find an unexpected convergence: the three pathways behave in some physiological contexts as linear signal transmitters. Testing the results experimentally, we present direct measurements of linear input-output behavior in the Wnt and ERK pathways. Analytics from each model further reveal that linearity arises through different means in each pathway, which we tested experimentally in the Wnt and ERK pathways. Linearity is a desired property in engineering where it facilitates fidelity and superposition in signal transmission. Our findings illustrate how cells tune different complex networks to converge on the same behavior.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/781a8e83c82ec64fcdccde644f303e16d21146e9" target='_blank'>Signaling pathways as linear transmitters</a></td>
          <td>
            Harry Nunns, Lea Goentoro
          </td>
          <td>2018-09-17</td>
          <td>eLife</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Networks of Signaling pathways provide a robust mechanism for cells to respond to various biological stimuli. In this paper we demonstrate cell adaptation through the viewpoint of an organizing principle between two interconnected pathways- MAPK and PKC. We use a multi-layered system representation of the pathways to determine the pathway components contributing to the adaptive behavior and coordination. The adaptation can be thought of as being manifested by a change in parameters of the coordinator. In silico experiments are conducted using MAPK/PKC mathematical model in literature to investigate the role of PLA2as a coordinator is reported here. Our results show that varying parameters of the coordinator not only activates the network of pathways where otherwise the pathway activity is very low, but also reveal the ability of the system to activate itself in the absence of the input, indicating relevance of the principle of bounded autonomy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b05bffc3e00de1eef8e2206dcd7c7aca7097059e" target='_blank'>From Networks to Systems to Complex Systems: A Signaling Pathway Coordination Case Study</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Soebiyanto, S. Sreenath, M. Mesarovic, O. Wolkenhauer
          </td>
          <td>2005-12-12</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the 44th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>52</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Biochemical networks related to similar functional pathways are often correlated due to cross-talk among the homologous proteins in the different networks. Using a stochastic framework, we address the functional significance of the cross-talk between two pathways. Our theoretical analysis on generic MAPK pathways reveals cross-talk is responsible for developing coordinated fluctuations between the pathways. The extent of correlation evaluated in terms of the information theoretic measure provides directionality to net information propagation. Stochastic time series and scattered plot suggest that the cross-talk generates synchronization within a cell as well as in a cellular population. Depending on the number of input and output, we identify signal integration and signal bifurcation motif that arise due to inter-pathway connectivity in the composite network. Analysis using partial information decomposition quantifies the net synergy in the information propagation through these branched pathways.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8c0ebb8b35dda6d869dfe84cf69e0ed74fdc8b95" target='_blank'>Information Theoretical Study of Cross-Talk Mediated Signal Transduction in MAPK Pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Maity, P. Chaudhury, S. Banik
          </td>
          <td>2015-10-16</td>
          <td>Entropy</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ffa71237db69cf044184a665266d3d46b57a20ee" target='_blank'>Mathematical modeling of regulatory networks of intracellular processes – Aims and selected methods</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Kardynska, Daria Kogut, Marcin Pacholczyk, J. Śmieja
          </td>
          <td>2023-02-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/75fd6027d52e75c27e75990da11221684c3f5f16" target='_blank'>Attenuation of noise in ultrasensitive signaling cascades.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Thattai, A. van Oudenaarden
          </td>
          <td>2002-06-01</td>
          <td>Biophysical journal</td>
          <td>233</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Ultrasensitive response motifs, capable of converting graded stimuli into binary responses, are well-conserved in signal transduction networks. Although it has been shown that a cascade arrangement of multiple ultrasensitive modules can enhance the system’s ultrasensitivity, how a given combination of layers affects a cascade’s ultrasensitivity remains an open question for the general case. Here, we introduce a methodology that allows us to determine the presence of sequestration effects and to quantify the relative contribution of each module to the overall cascade’s ultrasensitivity. The proposed analysis framework provides a natural link between global and local ultrasensitivity descriptors and it is particularly well-suited to characterize and understand mathematical models used to study real biological systems. As a case study, we have considered three mathematical models introduced by O’Shaughnessy et al. to study a tunable synthetic MAPK cascade, and we show how our methodology can help modelers better understand alternative models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7403ccb5aec77299b40b0d3202d94fc5b21a3656" target='_blank'>Ultrasensitivity in signaling cascades revisited: Linking local and global ultrasensitivity estimations</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Altszyler, A. Ventura, A. Colman-Lerner, A. Chernomoretz
          </td>
          <td>2016-08-29</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Each gene regulatory network (GRN) involves a set of DNA components and indirectly interacts each other to control gene expression rates. Especially, some sub-networks appear in a GRN holding feedback loop or coupled feedback loop mechanisms, which possess specific relationships and aim to maintain certain functional conditions. Many cases have been reported and experimentally verified the existence of feedback and coupled feedback loops in transcription regulatory networks. However, most feedback loops were not shown directly from the pathways reported by KEGG database. In this study, we integrated all possible cross-regulatory pathways within KEGG maps through examining the feedback relationship among all genes. A total of 427 biological pathway maps were verified individually and an on-line web based system was designed for identifying a specified gene for its possible feedback relationship. In addition, paralogous gene information was also considered for discovering potential coupled feedback loop relationships. There are 50 newly identified feedback loops and 124 coupled feedback loops were found in this study, of which 48 (96%) feedback loops were constructed from different KEGG maps. The built cross-linked pathways could facilitate biologists in understanding how the unveiled dynamic patterns of gene regulation maintain the balance of a specific biological function.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bb41bf619840603a90b16220209a983bb62e2438" target='_blank'>Discovering Feedback and Coupled Feedback Loops in KEGG Pathways through Cross-Map Identification</a></td>
          <td>
            Chen-Lung Liu, Chien-Ming Chen, Hui-Huang Hsu, Tun-Wen Pai
          </td>
          <td>2013-07-03</td>
          <td>2013 Seventh International Conference on Complex, Intelligent, and Software Intensive Systems</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Biochemical networks, including those containing signaling pathways, display a wide range of regulatory properties. These include the ability to propagate information across different time scales and to function as switches and oscillators. The mechanisms underlying these complex behaviors involve many interacting components and cannot be understood by experiments alone. The development of computational models and the integration of these models with experiments provide valuable insight into these complex systems-level behaviors. Here we review current approaches to the development of computational models of biochemical networks and describe the insights gained from models that integrate experimental data, using three examples that deal with ultrasensitivity, flexible bistability and oscillatory behavior. These types of complex behavior from relatively simple networks highlight the necessity of using theoretical approaches in understanding higher order biological functions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7892da387cb63b94afbe9f7c3bc0d0b71be6c4c2" target='_blank'>Modeling Signaling Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Susana R. Neves, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>2002-12-01</td>
          <td>Science</td>
          <td>131</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b06d234407efd97d798904ba97ebb9a73b5fb31e" target='_blank'>Methodologies for the modeling and simulation of biochemical networks, illustrated for signal transduction pathways: A primer</a></td>
          <td>
            Nesma ElKalaawy, A. Wassal
          </td>
          <td>2015-03-01</td>
          <td>Bio Systems</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/17b108d1790cf60844d2f4cd74ce00efffd7bc4b" target='_blank'>The genome-scale metabolic model iIN800 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its validation: a scaffold to query lipid metabolism</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Nookaew, Michael C. Jewett, Asawin Meechai, Chinae Thammarongtham, Kobkul Laoteng, Supapon Cheevadhanarak, Jens Nielsen, Sakarindr Bhumiratana
          </td>
          <td>2008-08-07</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>383</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Scientists have often observed unexpected communication between signalling pathways or molecules in the cell since 1960s. As this activity can hardly be well explained using biology theory, it has been termed as crosstalk, unwanted conversation. Recently, crosstalk has been found as a critical component of biological system robustness. More and more biologists have been working towards the understanding of the underlying mechanism of crosstalk for various signalling pathways or networks. Many qualitative models have been developed for indirect analysis of crosstalk. However, few quantitative models have been developed for such investigations. This study has employed regression approaches for modeling crosstalk between different signalling components and the end signalling components of the MAPK kinases ERK, MEK and JNK based on the published experimental data. The simulation shows that the models can well explain the crosstalk consistent with biology">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/df0bc598d725ff25db9323034bc86353a3854660" target='_blank'>Regressional inhibitive crosstalk models</a></td>
          <td>
            Z. Yang, Natasha Young
          </td>
          <td>2007-02-14</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/514f78dc7cf8c1400823726efd75d16c61a574ca" target='_blank'>The systems biology of signaling pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            I. N. Lavrik, I. N. Lavrik, M. Samsonova
          </td>
          <td>2016-01-01</td>
          <td>Biophysics</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/514f78dc7cf8c1400823726efd75d16c61a574ca" target='_blank'>The systems biology of signaling pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            I. N. Lavrik, I. N. Lavrik, M. Samsonova
          </td>
          <td>2016-01-01</td>
          <td>Biophysics</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c063527a247ba6536dd3a9172cafc42cba946c5" target='_blank'>The effect of coupled feedback on noise filtering in signal transduction networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Dengyu Liu, Xiao Chang, Zengrong Liu, Luonan Chen, Ruiqi Wang
          </td>
          <td>2010-11-09</td>
          <td>Journal of Systems Science and Complexity</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>60</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6319b79882fa8bd07267c8cafc082740cd9779b6" target='_blank'>Computational modeling of the EGFR network elucidates control mechanisms regulating signal dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Dennis Wang, L. Cardelli, Andrew Phillips, Nir Piterman, J. Fisher
          </td>
          <td>2009-12-22</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>40</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/57d5b88b0d56e0cbcd654d31a31ed6d1e921247a" target='_blank'>Core network identification using parametric sensitivity and multi-way principal component analysis in NFkB signaling network</a></td>
          <td>
            Chang Yu, Yan Yu Chen, Shih-Chi Peng, David Shan-Hill Wong, Y. Chuang
          </td>
          <td>2013-06-01</td>
          <td>Journal of The Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/486e692a589332225293a4accd0672423a72245e" target='_blank'>Computational approaches for modeling regulatory cellular networks.</a></td>
          <td>
            N. J. Eungdamrong, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>2004-12-01</td>
          <td>Trends in cell biology</td>
          <td>66</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating signal transduction in cellular signaling networks provides predictions of network dynamics by quantifying the changes in concentration and activity-level of the individual proteins. Since numerical values of kinetic parameters might be difficult to obtain, it is imperative to develop non-parametric approaches that combine the connectivity of a network with the response of individual proteins to signals which travel through the network. The activity levels of signaling proteins computed through existing non-parametric modeling tools do not show significant correlations with the observed values in experimental results. In this work we developed a non-parametric computational framework to describe the profile of the evolving process and the time course of the proportion of active form of molecules in the signal transduction networks. The model is also capable of incorporating perturbations. The model was validated on four signaling networks showing that it can effectively uncover the activity levels and trends of response during signal transduction process.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8d7b2f82278b1e0396626ed63f2da71203f1c000" target='_blank'>Nonparametric Simulation of Signal Transduction Networks with Semi-Synchronized Update</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Nassiri, A. Masoudi-Nejad, M. Jalili, A. Moeini
          </td>
          <td>2012-06-21</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Signal transduction pathways are very complex biochemical networks that include a large number of vital biomolecules and chemical compounds whose activities are dependent on member(s) involved in the network under consideration as well as other networks. Modularized study of such networks will be more appropriate for deciphering the underlying mechanisms that control physiological behavior of cell(s). Here we have proposed an algorithm for modularizing signal transduction network which is applied to MAPK pathway of D. melanogaster and H. sapiens. The idea "a member whose activity is controlled by maximum number of other members in the network under consideration, tends to be the center of a module" is used to divide a network into different modules. These modules are created by taking a certain level of complexity c into account, i.e., in an expanding module, a member having more than c relations that lie outside the module, are ignored. Recursive modularization can create modules at different stages of various complexities that finally lead to convergence of the entire network into a single module">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f952e5620dae3eae38b5b53b30ed0d524112a48f" target='_blank'>MAPK Signaling Pathways and Their Recursive Modularization</a></td>
          <td>
            R. K. De, Losiana Nayak
          </td>
          <td>2006-11-21</td>
          <td>2006 15th International Conference on Computing</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Many distinct signaling pathways allow the cell to receive, process, and respond to information. Often, components of different pathways interact, resulting in signaling networks. Biochemical signaling networks were constructed with experimentally obtained constants and analyzed by computational methods to understand their role in complex biological processes. These networks exhibit emergent properties such as integration of signals across multiple time scales, generation of distinct outputs depending on input strength and duration, and self-sustaining feedback loops. Feedback can result in bistable behavior with discrete steady-state activities, well-defined input thresholds for transition between states and prolonged signal output, and signal modulation in response to transient stimuli. These properties of signaling networks raise the possibility that information for "learned behavior" of biological systems may be stored within intracellular biochemical reactions that comprise signaling pathways.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b9de3b7150cc254356bd579ef99e0714c1f3b39a" target='_blank'>Emergent properties of networks of biological signaling pathways.</a></td>
          <td>
            U. Bhalla, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>1999-01-15</td>
          <td>Science</td>
          <td>1646</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>