---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-29 08:54:28 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>How to Build the Virtual Cell with Artificial Intelligence: Priorities and Opportunities</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c8fd7a3e8cfedeb339346ac53cd4ec8f58d0d1a0" target='_blank'>How to build the virtual cell with artificial intelligence: Priorities and opportunities</a></td>
          <td>
            Charlotte Bunne, Yusuf Roohani, Yanay Rosen, Ankit Gupta, Xikun Zhang, Marcel Roed, Theo Alexandrov, Mohammed AlQuraishi, Patricia Brennan, Daniel B. Burkhardt, Andrea Califano, J. Cool, A. Dernburg, Kirsty Ewing, Emily B. Fox, Matthias Haury, Amy E. Herr, Eric Horvitz, Patrick D. Hsu, Viren Jain, Gregory R. Johnson, Thomas Kalil, David R. Kelley, Shana O. Kelley, A. Kreshuk, Tim Mitchison, Stephani Otte, Jay Shendure, Nicholas J Sofroniew, Fabian Theis, Christina V. Theodoris, S. Upadhyayula, M. Valer, Bo Wang, Eric Xing, S. Yeung-Levy, M. Zitnik, Theofanis Karaletsos, Aviv Regev, Emma Lundberg, J. Leskovec, Stephen R. Quake
          </td>
          <td>2024-12-01</td>
          <td>Cell</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>136</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a4731c9b0c04e5d133d26b6aa72b6d496caeb67f" target='_blank'>Building the next generation of virtual cells to understand cellular biology</a></td>
          <td>
            G. Johnson, E. Agmon, Matthew Akamatsu, E. Lundberg, Blair Lyons, W. Ouyang, Omar A. Quintero-Carmona, S. Rafelski, R. Horwitz
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>Biophysical Journal</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The success of artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms in predicting protein structure and more recently, protein interactions, demonstrates the power and potential of machine learning and AI for advancing and accelerating biomedical research. As cells are the fundamental unit of life, applying these tools to understand and predict cellular function represents the next great challenge. However, given the complexity of cellular structure and function, the diversity of cell types and the dynamic plasticity of cell states, the task will not be easy. To accomplish this challenge, AI models must scale and grow in sophistication, fueled by quantitative, multimodal data linking cell structure (their molecular composition, architecture, and morphology) to cell function (cell type and state). As cell biologists embrace the potential of AI models focused on cell features and functions, they are well positioned to contribute to their development, validate their utility, and perhaps, most importantly, play a leading role in leveraging the powers and insight emerging from the coming wave of cell-scale AI models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4720a08dd6f6be40113686af9fdec4976a6ac52d" target='_blank'>AI: A transformative opportunity in cell biology.</a></td>
          <td>
            Ambrose Carr, J. Cool, Theofanis Karaletsos, Donghui Li, Alan R Lowe, Stephani Otte, Sandra L Schmid
          </td>
          <td>2024-12-01</td>
          <td>Molecular biology of the cell</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract The editorial, “Clinical and translational mode of single‐cell measurements: An artificial intelligent single‐cell,” introduces the innovative clinical artificial intelligence single‐cell (caiSC) system, which merges AI with single‐cell informatics to advance real‐time diagnostics, disease monitoring, and treatment prediction. By combining clinical data and multimodal molecular inputs, caiSC facilitates personalized medicine, promising enhanced diagnostic precision and tailored therapeutic approaches. Despite its potential, caiSC lacks comprehensive data coverage across cell types and diseases, presenting challenges in data quality and model robustness. The article explores development strategies such as data expansion, machine learning advancements, and interpretability improvements. Future applications of caiSC could include digital cell twins, offering in‐depth simulations of cellular behavior to support drug discovery and personalized treatments. Regulatory considerations are discussed, underscoring the need for SaMD/AIaMD certifications for clinical use. Ultimately, with further refinement, caiSC could transform clinical decision‐making, driving personalized, precision medicine, and improved patient outcomes. Key points Integration of AI with Single‐Cell Informatics for Precision Medicine: The caiSC system combines artificial intelligence and single‐cell data to improve diagnostics, treatment predictions, and personalized medical decision‐making. Challenges in Data Coverage and Model Robustness: caiSC currently faces limitations due to incomplete data across cell types, diseases, and organs, as well as challenges in data quality and high computational demands, which affect model accuracy and clinical applicability. Future Potential and Regulatory Needs: The caiSC framework's development could lead to innovations such as digital cell twins, enabling personalized simulations of cellular responses for better treatment planning, though regulatory certification is essential for safe clinical use.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6b72a38a9ad964e2cc0ee979efcb10bdff44029f" target='_blank'>Transforming precision medicine: The potential of the clinical artificial intelligent single‐cell framework</a></td>
          <td>
            Christian Baumgartner, Dagmar Brislinger
          </td>
          <td>2025-01-01</td>
          <td>Clinical and Translational Medicine</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present an approach of using AI to model and simulate biology and life. Why is it important? Because at the core of medicine, pharmacy, public health, longevity, agriculture and food security, environmental protection, and clean energy, it is biology at work. Biology in the physical world is too complex to manipulate and always expensive and risky to tamper with. In this perspective, we layout an engineering viable approach to address this challenge by constructing an AI-Driven Digital Organism (AIDO), a system of integrated multiscale foundation models, in a modular, connectable, and holistic fashion to reflect biological scales, connectedness, and complexities. An AIDO opens up a safe, affordable and high-throughput alternative platform for predicting, simulating and programming biology at all levels from molecules to cells to individuals. We envision that an AIDO is poised to trigger a new wave of better-guided wet-lab experimentation and better-informed first-principle reasoning, which can eventually help us better decode and improve life.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a51a31b87df737adcddf421c5e5592bc6c94e01a" target='_blank'>Toward AI-Driven Digital Organism: Multiscale Foundation Models for Predicting, Simulating and Programming Biology at All Levels</a></td>
          <td>
            Le Song, Eran Segal, Eric P. Xing
          </td>
          <td>2024-12-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 Today, scientists are attempting to model whole cells using computational biology, building virtual cells that capture the dynamics of living. In the post-genomic era, vast quantities of data describing the parts of living cells, both normally functioning and diseased, have been amassed. Understanding how cells behave has been the goal of reductionist science, and many of the principles are well understood. In elucidating the details, complexity has been revealed to the degree that scientists have limited capacity to understand the systems underlying the biological networks. This is to say, cellular behavior is difficult to predict.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/67c2c1adc6991742b17fb06737405e5efcee14c7" target='_blank'>Computational biology is poised to advance precision medicine with machine learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Susan D Mertins
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-25</td>
          <td>Open Access Government</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cells are fundamental units of life, constantly interacting and evolving as dynamical systems. While recent spatial multi-omics can quantitate individual cells’ characteristics and regulatory programs, forecasting their evolution ultimately requires mathematical modeling. We develop a conceptual framework—a cell behavior hypothesis grammar—that uses natural language statements (cell rules) to create mathematical models. This allows us to systematically integrate biological knowledge and multi-omics data to make them computable. We can then perform virtual “thought experiments” that challenge and extend our understanding of multicellular systems, and ultimately generate new testable hypotheses. In this paper, we motivate and describe the grammar, provide a reference implementation, and demonstrate its potential through a series of examples in tumor biology and immunotherapy. Altogether, this approach provides a bridge between biological, clinical, and systems biology researchers for mathematical modeling of biological systems at scale, allowing the community to extrapolate from single-cell characterization to emergent multicellular behavior.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c2f981fa41baeb4395e7c5c5be42dd99475cbd2a" target='_blank'>Digitize your Biology! Modeling multicellular systems through interpretable cell behavior</a></td>
          <td>
            Jeanette Johnson, G. Stein-O’Brien, Max Booth, Randy W. Heiland, Furkan Kurtoglu, Daniel R. Bergman, Elmar Bucher, Atul Deshpande, André Forjaz, Michael Getz, I. Godet, Melissa R Lyman, John Metzcar, Jacob T. Mitchell, Andrew D. Raddatz, Heber L. Rocha, Jacobo Solorzano, Aneequa Sundus, Yafei Wang, Danielle Gilkes, L. T. Kagohara, A. Kiemen, E. D. Thompson, Denis Wirtz, Pei-Hsun Wu, N. Zaidi, Lei Zheng, Jacquelyn W. Zimmerman, E. Jaffee, Y. Chang, L. Coussens, Joe W. Gray, Laura M. Heiser, E. Fertig, P. Macklin
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-17</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>93</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Largely unknown just a few decades ago, computational systems biology is now a central methodology for biological and medical research. This amazing ascent raises the question of what the community should do next. The article outlines our personal vision for the future of computational systems biology, suggesting the need to address both mindsets and methodologies. We present this vision by focusing on current and anticipated research goals, the development of strong computational tools, likely prominent applications, education of the next-generation of scientists, and outreach to the public. In our opinion, two classes of broad research goals have emerged in recent years and will guide future efforts. The first goal targets computational models of increasing size and complexity, aimed at solving emerging health-related challenges, such as realistic whole-cell and organ models, disease simulators and digital twins, in silico clinical trials, and clinically translational applications in the context of therapeutic drug development. Such large models will also lead us toward solutions to pressing issues in agriculture and environmental sustainability, including sufficient food availability and life in changing habitats. The second goal is a deep understanding of the essence of system designs and strategies with which nature solves problems. This understanding will help us explain observed biological structures and guide forays into synthetic biological systems. Regarding effective methodologies, we suggest efforts toward automated data pipelines from raw biomedical data all the way to spatiotemporal mechanistic model. These will be supported by dynamic methods of statistics, machine learning, artificial intelligence and streamlined strategies of dynamic model design, striking a fine balance between modeling realistic complexity and abstracted simplicity. Finally, we suggest the need for a concerted, community-wide emphasis on effective education in systems biology, implemented as a combination of formal instruction and hands-on mentoring. The educational efforts should furthermore be extended toward the public through books, blogs, social media, and interactive networking opportunities, with the ultimate goal of training in state-of-the-art technology while recapturing the lost art of synthesis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6c0330b51ad3dd7573a51fe60c953360ef6812b3" target='_blank'>What’s next for computational systems biology?</a></td>
          <td>
            Eberhard O. Voit, Ashti M. Shah, Daniel V. Olivença, Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-19</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Systems Biology</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Computer scientists, mathematicians, and physicists are collaborating with cell biologists to build a tool, "Virtual Cell", that can merge data of cellular biochemistry with knowledge of cell structure to help us understand how cells produce complex behaviors. A cell is a highly complex factory that organizes thousands of different molecules to produce a specialized function. Microscopists have catalogued a wealth of data about the detailed structures within different types of cells and biochemists have assembled details about the properties and reactions of many of a cell's individual molecular constituents. The experimental information gathered from the test tube and from the microscope is married within "Virtual Cell" to construct a computer model which can produce simulations of how cells carry out a given function (e.g. secretion of insulin, contraction of heart muscle). What is produced are digital movies showing how each molecular species moves and reacts inside the cell during the cell biological process. Perhaps the most exciting application of this tool is that it allows scientists to ask questions about what happens when one step in a complex chain of events misfires or how a drug that is known to affect just a single enzyme might change the way a cell carries oat a specific function. But in addition to its else as a research tool, "Virtual Cell" can be a valuable teaching aid and may serve as a focus for organizing the tremendous knowledge base that comprises modern cell biology and biochemistry.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d2ee7d9847a105af9a364bfca0244df3e64125ca" target='_blank'>The virtual cell: creating models of complex cellular events</a></td>
          <td>
            L. Loew
          </td>
          <td>1999-06-18</td>
          <td>Proceedings 12th IEEE Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems (Cat. No.99CB36365)</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modern biology and biomedicine are undergoing a big data explosion, needing advanced computational algorithms to extract mechanistic insights on the physiological state of living cells. We present the motivation for the Cell Physiome project: a framework and approach for creating, sharing, and using biophysics-based computational models of single-cell physiology. Using examples in calcium signaling, bioenergetics, and endosomal trafficking, we highlight the need for spatially detailed, biophysics-based computational models to uncover new mechanisms underlying cell biology. We review progress and challenges to date toward creating cell physiome models. We then introduce bond graphs as an efficient way to create cell physiome models that integrate chemical, mechanical, electromagnetic, and thermal processes while maintaining mass and energy balance. Bond graphs enhance modularization and reusability of computational models of cells at scale. We conclude with a look forward at steps that will help fully realize this exciting new field of mechanistic biomedical data science. Expected final online publication date for the Annual Review of Biomedical Data Science, Volume 5 is August 2022. Please see http://www.annualreviews.org/page/journal/pubdates for revised estimates.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4d3d6a90dc02f3f436694ff0f6640748f02311e1" target='_blank'>The Cell Physiome: What Do We Need in a Computational Physiology Framework for Predicting Single-Cell Biology?</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Rajagopal, S. Arumugam, Peter J. Hunter, A. Khadangi, Joshua Chung, Michael Pan
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-27</td>
          <td>Annual review of biomedical data science</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/47fb16103676b22a4814cbbe8315f6fefcd02319" target='_blank'>Emerging whole-cell modeling principles and methods.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. P. Goldberg, Balázs Szigeti, Yin Hoon Chew, John A. P. Sekar, Yosef D. Roth, Jonathan R. Karr
          </td>
          <td>2017-10-06</td>
          <td>Current opinion in biotechnology</td>
          <td>66</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cells act as physical computational programs that utilize input signals to orchestrate molecule-level protein-protein interactions (PPIs), generating and responding to forces, ultimately shaping all of the physiological and pathophysiological behaviors. Genome editing and molecule drugs targeting PPIs hold great promise for the treatments of diseases. Linking genes and molecular drugs with protein-performed cellular behaviors is a key yet challenging issue due to the wide range of involved spatial and temporal scales involved. Building predictive spatiotemporal modeling systems that can describe the dynamic behaviors of cells intervened by genome editing and molecular drugs at the intersection of biology, chemistry, physics, and computer science will greatly accelerate pharmaceutical advances. Here, we review the mechanical roles of cytoskeletal proteins in orchestrating cellular behaviors alongside significant advancements in biophysical modeling while also addressing the limitations in these models. Then, by integrating generative artificial intelligence (AI) with spatiotemporal multiscale biophysical modeling, we propose a computational pipeline for developing virtual cells, which can simulate and evaluate the therapeutic effects of drugs and genome editing technologies on various cell dynamic behaviors and could have broad biomedical applications. Such virtual cell modeling systems might revolutionize modern biomedical engineering by moving most of the painstaking wet-laboratory effort to computer simulations, substantially saving time and alleviating the financial burden for pharmaceutical industries.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc398ef8088663383cf573d64b638ba42f0eb085" target='_blank'>Applying Spatiotemporal Modeling of Cell Dynamics to Accelerate Drug Development.</a></td>
          <td>
            Xindong Chen, Shihao Xu, Bizhu Chu, Jing Guo, Huikai Zhang, Shuyi Sun, Le Song, Xiqiao Feng
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-18</td>
          <td>ACS nano</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/107632cb5694d13661987d6e0e59e2dc2672386f" target='_blank'>Understanding the cell: Future views of structural biology</a></td>
          <td>
            Martin Beck, Roberto Covino, Inga Hänelt, Michaela Müller-McNicoll
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-01</td>
          <td>Cell</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Despite efforts to integrate research across different subdisciplines of biology, the scale of integration remains limited. We hypothesize that future generations of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies specifically adapted for biological sciences will help enable the reintegration of biology. AI technologies will allow us not only to collect, connect and analyze data at unprecedented scales, but also to build comprehensive predictive models that span various subdisciplines. They will make possible both targeted (testing specific hypotheses) and untargeted discoveries. AI for biology will be the cross-cutting technology that will enhance our ability to do biological research at every scale. We expect AI to revolutionize biology in the 21st century much like statistics transformed biology in the 20th century. The difficulties, however, are many, including data curation and assembly, development of new science in the form of theories that connect the subdisciplines, and new predictive and interpretable AI models that are more suited to biology than existing machine learning and AI techniques. Development efforts will require strong collaborations between biological and computational scientists. This white paper provides a vision for AI for Biology and highlights some challenges.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3390c4c6f31ca43063a8ed3ea857d8da89114789" target='_blank'>Artificial Intelligence for Biology.</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Hassoun, F. Jefferson, Xinghua Shi, Brian J. Stucky, Jin Wang, E. Rosa
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-27</td>
          <td>Integrative and comparative biology</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c62c7061c3454e39df4370102ccad37d691e7ac" target='_blank'>The Dawn of Virtual Cell Biology</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Freddolino, Saeed Tavazoie
          </td>
          <td>2012-07-20</td>
          <td>Cell</td>
          <td>25</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The human body is constructed from over 1013 cells organized in complex patterns of hierarchical organization. Each cell carries out its own metabolism. During various portions of the human lifespan, different types of cells replicate, differentiate, migrate, and sometimes die. The combination of AI, highend computing capabilities, and improvements in sensor and molecular characterization methods are making it possible to analyze humans and other animal and plant life forms in a quantitative granular, multiscale, cell-based fashion.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7f1171a8fcbd21be5b7b6035bf35c06d060fc3a6" target='_blank'>AI and Pathology: Steering Treatment and Predicting Outcomes</a></td>
          <td>
            Rajarsi R. Gupta, Jakub R. Kaczmarzyk, Soma Kobayashi, T. Kurç, J. Saltz
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-15</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Many cellular processes involve information processing and decision making. We can probe these processes at increasing molecular detail. The analysis of heterogeneous data remains a challenge that requires new ways of thinking about cells in quantitative, predictive, and mechanistic ways. We discuss the role of mathematical models in the context of cell-fate decision making systems across the tree of life. Complex multi-cellular organisms have been a particular focus, but single celled organisms also have to sense and respond to their environment. We center our discussion around the idea of design principles which we can learn from observations and modeling, and exploit in order to (re)-design or guide cellular behavior.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3c4b2daa20b8286a47949426e0feca8647a87870" target='_blank'>Mapping, modeling, and reprogramming cell-fate decision making systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Lucy Ham, Taylor E. Woodford, Megan A. Coomer, M. P. Stumpf
          </td>
          <td>2024-12-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>5</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Computational models are tackling the complexity of biology, from single-celled microbes to human organs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e5a2bed12391f00b2a6885e13c86df3abcd732f2" target='_blank'>Life in simulation</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Savage
          </td>
          <td>2013-02-01</td>
          <td>Commun. ACM</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/657a03c596fa9b6ad7b53681d6a4b455b35821d3" target='_blank'>AI in Cellular Engineering and Reprogramming.</a></td>
          <td>
            Sara Capponi, Shangying Wang
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-01</td>
          <td>Biophysical journal</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/918ffb2b49f4c25b3a31c825be17c549a0cd5bfb" target='_blank'>Whole-cell simulation: a grand challenge of the 21st century.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Tomita
          </td>
          <td>2001-06-01</td>
          <td>Trends in biotechnology</td>
          <td>332</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The Virtual Cell modeling and simulation framework is the product of interdisciplinary research in biology that applies the diverse strengths and experiences of individuals from engineering, the physical sciences, the biological sciences, and mathematics. A key feature is the separation of layers (core technologies and abstractions) representing biological models, physical mechanisms, geometry, mathematical models and numerical methods. This reduces software complexity, allowing independent development and verification, but most importantly it clarifies the impact of modeling decisions, assumptions, and approximations. The result is a physically consistent, mathematically rigorous, spatial modeling and simulation framework for cell biology. The Virtual Cell has a rich, interactive user interface which connects to remote services providing scalable access to a modeling database and a large dedicated cluster for shared computation and storage. In addition to new modeling capabilities, future developments will emphasize data and tool interoperability, extensibility, and experimentally oriented model analysis tools">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/94203130a0dbb704affa2eac32a43b330c748751" target='_blank'>Think Simulation - Think Experiment: The Virtual Cell Paradigm</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Moraru, J. Schaff, L. Loew
          </td>
          <td>2006-12-03</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the 2006 Winter Simulation Conference</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7740e268273b187df4927d58bd2396516d89388e" target='_blank'>scDesign3 generates realistic in silico data for multimodal single-cell and spatial omics</a></td>
          <td>
            Dongyuan Song, Qingyang Wang, Guanao Yan, Tianyang Liu, Tianyi Sun, J. Li
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-11</td>
          <td>Nature Biotechnology</td>
          <td>42</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The biological challenges facing humanity are complex, multi-factorial, and are intimately tied to the future of our health, welfare, and stewardship of the Earth. Tackling problems in diverse areas, such as agriculture, ecology, and health care require linking vast data sets that encompass numerous components and spatio-temporal scales. Here, we provide a new framework and a road map for using experiments and computation to understand dynamic biological systems that span multiple scales. We discuss theories that can help understand complex biological systems and highlight the limitations of existing methodologies and recommend data generation practices. The advent of new technologies such as big data analytics and artificial intelligence can help bridge different scales and data types. We recommend ways to make such models transparent, compatible with existing theories of biological function, and to make biological data sets readable by advanced machine learning algorithms. Overall, the barriers for tackling pressing biological challenges are not only technological, but also sociological. Hence, we also provide recommendations for promoting interdisciplinary interactions between scientists.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2b61c0986cd3a293cc31a0e9456d51362c278fee" target='_blank'>The Axes of Life: A roadmap for understanding dynamic multiscale systems.</a></td>
          <td>
            Sriram Chandrasekaran, N. Danos, Uduak Z. George, Jin P. Han, G. Quon, R. Müller, Yinphan Tsang, C. Wolgemuth
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-28</td>
          <td>Integrative and comparative biology</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>34</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The pharmaceutical industry suffered a significant decline of innovation in the last few decades, whose simple reason is complex biology. Artificial intelligence (AI) promises to make the entire drug discovery and development process more efficient. Here I consider the potential benefits of using AI to deepen our mechanistic understanding of disease by leveraging data and knowledge for modeling and simulation of genome-scale biological networks. I outline recent developments that are moving the field forward and I identify several overarching challenges for advancing the state of the art towards the successful integration of AI with modeling and simulation in drug discovery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e97b7881b97902475a5ac04d5698f34ae047a164" target='_blank'>How artificial intelligence enables modeling and simulation of biological networks to accelerate drug discovery</a></td>
          <td>
            M. DiNuzzo
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-04</td>
          <td>None</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/dd086b80ba47a6d9a9a6602044c05f855d19c950" target='_blank'>Virtual models best live cells at predicting biology</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Dove
          </td>
          <td>2006-10-30</td>
          <td>Nature Medicine</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This article describes the Cell Maps for Artificial Intelligence (CM4AI) project and its goals, methods, standards, current datasets, software tools, status, and future directions. CM4AI is the Functional Genomics Data Generation Project in the U.S. National Institute of Health’s (NIH) Bridge2AI program. Its overarching mission is to produce ethical, AI-ready datasets of cell architecture, inferred from multimodal data collected for human cell lines, to enable transformative biomedical AI research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ed12fb285da4e31328a6d3280da96f4a3a8078b3" target='_blank'>Cell Maps for Artificial Intelligence: AI-Ready Maps of Human Cell Architecture from Disease-Relevant Cell Lines</a></td>
          <td>
            Timothy Clark, Jillian A. Mohan, Leah V. Schaffer, K. Obernier, Sadnan Al Manir, Christopher Churas, Amir Dailamy, Yesh Doctor, Antoine Forget, Jan Hansen, Mengzhou Hu, Joanna Lenkiewicz, M. Levinson, Charlotte Marquez, Sami Nourreddine, Justin Niestroy, Dexter Pratt, Gege Qian, Swathi Thaker, J. Bélisle-Pipon, Cynthia Brandt, J. Chen, Ying Ding, S. Fodeh, N. Krogan, Emma Lundberg, Prashant Mali, Pamela Payne-Foster, Sarah J Ratcliffe, V. Ravitsky, Andrej Šali, Wade L. Schulz, T. Ideker
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-24</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>80</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d4d9aae4e93e1f231ee6956f381a254a9905f0f7" target='_blank'>Forecasting cellular states: from descriptive to predictive biology via single-cell multiomics.</a></td>
          <td>
            G. Stein-O’Brien, Michaela C Ainsile, E. Fertig
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-03</td>
          <td>Current opinion in systems biology</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract In this review, we explore the growing role of artificial intelligence (AI) in advancing the biomedical applications of human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)‐derived organoids. Stem cell‐derived organoids, these miniature organ replicas, have become essential tools for disease modeling, drug discovery, and regenerative medicine. However, analyzing the vast and intricate datasets generated from these organoids can be inefficient and error‐prone. AI techniques offer a promising solution to efficiently extract insights and make predictions from diverse data types generated from microscopy images, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and proteomics. This review offers a brief overview of organoid characterization and fundamental concepts in AI while focusing on a comprehensive exploration of AI applications in organoid‐based disease modeling and drug evaluation. It provides insights into the future possibilities of AI in enhancing the quality control of organoid fabrication, label‐free organoid recognition, and three‐dimensional image reconstruction of complex organoid structures. This review presents the challenges and potential solutions in AI‐organoid integration, focusing on the establishment of reliable AI model decision‐making processes and the standardization of organoid research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/90c6e9bc031fcd8242434f0d590ae93360685785" target='_blank'>AI‐organoid integrated systems for biomedical studies and applications</a></td>
          <td>
            Sudhiksha Maramraju, Andrew Kowalczewski, Anirudh Kaza, Xiyuan Liu, J. Singaraju, Mark V Albert, Zhen Ma, Huaxiao Yang
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-20</td>
          <td>Bioengineering & Translational Medicine</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/820dc0b654879e8cf2e3dd8e96cb4b97dcb09f8c" target='_blank'>Reconstructing whole-cell models</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Hodgman, I. Goryanin, Navtej S. Juty
          </td>
          <td>2001-08-01</td>
          <td>Drug Discovery Today</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/22fbd814136e7db2633f3d02033bfe2d2faa5721" target='_blank'>Organoid intelligence: Integration of organoid technology and artificial intelligence in the new era of in vitro models</a></td>
          <td>
            Huaiyu Shi, Andrew Kowalczewski, Danny Vu, Xiyuan Liu, Asif Salekin, Huaxiao Yang, Zhen Ma
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>Medicine in novel technology and devices</td>
          <td>15</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Summary The Computational Modelling of Systems Biology (SysMod) Community of Special Interest (COSI) convenes annually at the Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB) conference to facilitate knowledge dissemination and exchange of research findings on systems modelling from interdisciplinary domains. The SysMod meeting 2022 was held in a hybrid mode in Madison, Wisconsin, spanning a 1-day duration centred on modelling techniques, applications, and single-cell technology implementations. The meeting showcased innovative approaches to modelling biological systems using cell-specific and multiscale modelling, multiomics data integration, and novel tools to develop systems models using single-cell and multiomics technology. The meeting also recognized outstanding research by awarding the three best posters. This report summarizes the key highlights and outcomes of the meeting. Availability and implementation All resources and further information are freely accessible at https://sysmod.info.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/547112271fde1249b79fa19d22cb3c8f8c3ba0db" target='_blank'>Advancements in computational modelling of biological systems: seventh annual SysMod meeting</a></td>
          <td>
            B. L. Puniya, Andreas Dräger
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-01</td>
          <td>Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a56ec7588045c73a6cb73cfe874111f016f8dd55" target='_blank'>The Cell Collective: Toward an open and collaborative approach to systems biology</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Helikar, B. Kowal, Sean McClenathan, Mitchell Bruckner, Thaine W. Rowley, A. Madrahimov, Benjamin Wicks, Manish Shrestha, Kahani Limbu, J. Rogers
          </td>
          <td>2012-08-07</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>225</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ca91940ced4b25ab81d8505a57a7751fd10520e5" target='_blank'>Silicon dreams of cells into symbols</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Gunawardena
          </td>
          <td>2012-09-01</td>
          <td>Nature Biotechnology</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Artificial intelligence has found its way into numerous fields of medicine in the past decade, spurred by the availability of big data and powerful processors. For the COVID-19 pandemic, aside from predicting its onset, artificial intelligence has been used to track disease spread, detect pulmonary involvement in computed tomography scans, risk-stratify patients, and model virtual protein structure and potential therapeutic agents. This mini-review briefly discusses the potential applications of artificial intelligence in COVID-19 microscopy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b2376224f33606948354aca8506a66ae4f6f7544" target='_blank'>Artificial Intelligence in COVID-19 Ultrastructure</a></td>
          <td>
            Mohamed Y. Elwazir, S. Hosny
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Microscopy and Ultrastructure</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9d812bc005cf05dea8d63b5e242b81eb57b7e19b" target='_blank'>Application of deep learning methods: From molecular modelling to patient classification.</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiao Fu, P. Bates
          </td>
          <td>2022-07-07</td>
          <td>Experimental cell research</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>60</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/721dad571ed8e33b68c4a67d748ab04ccbad3994" target='_blank'>From sampling to simulating: Single-cell multiomics in systems pathophysiological modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            Alexandra Manchel, Michelle M. Gee, R. Vadigepalli
          </td>
          <td>2024-11-01</td>
          <td>iScience</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="How Cells Work.- The Complexity of Living Things.- Looking at Very Small Things.- Manipulation of the Very Small.- Reprogramming Cells.- Other Ways to Use Biology for Biological Experiments.- Bioinformatics.- Where to go from here?.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5c7e7eb2791e6f090f296a6d578d94d405b8315a" target='_blank'>A Computer Scientist's Guide to Cell Biology</a></td>
          <td>
            William W. Cohen
          </td>
          <td>2007-06-25</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="How Cells Work.- The Complexity of Living Things.- Looking at Very Small Things.- Manipulation of the Very Small.- Reprogramming Cells.- Other Ways to Use Biology for Biological Experiments.- Bioinformatics.- Where to go from here?.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2aad7765250f7d9e312c9382f929ea5239b0fd73" target='_blank'>A Computer Scientist's Guide to Cell Biology</a></td>
          <td>
            
          </td>
          <td>2007-06-25</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Digital twins offer a new and exciting framework that has recently attracted significant interest in fields such as oncology, immunology, and cardiology. The basic idea of a digital twin is to combine simulation and learning to create a virtual model of a physical object. In this paper, we explore how the concept of digital twins can be generalized into a broader, overarching field. From a theoretical standpoint, this generalization is achieved by recognizing that the duality of a digital twin fundamentally connects complexity science with data science, leading to the emergence of complexity data science as a synthesis of the two. We examine the broader implications of this field, including its historical roots, challenges, and opportunities.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/241bc9faffbd5df97540a844c072c1727cfc31fd" target='_blank'>Complexity data science: A spin-off from digital twins</a></td>
          <td>
            Frank Emmert-Streib, H. Cherifi, K. Kaski, Stuart Kauffman, O. Yli-Harja
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-30</td>
          <td>PNAS Nexus</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>30</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A whole-cell model represents certain aspects of the cell structure and/or function. Due to the high complexity of the cell, an integrative modeling approach is often taken to utilize all available information including experimental data, prior knowledge and prior models. In this review, we summarize an emerging workflow of whole-cell modeling into five steps: (i) gather information; (ii) represent the modeled system into modules; (iii) translate input information into scoring function; (iv) sample the whole-cell model; (v) validate and interpret the model. In particular, we propose the integrative modeling of the cell by combining available (whole-cell) models to maximize the accuracy, precision, and completeness. In addition, we list quantitative predictions of various aspects of cell biology from existing whole-cell models. Moreover, we discuss the remaining challenges and future directions, and highlight the opportunity to establish an integrative spatiotemporal multi-scale whole-cell model based on a community approach.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b84432efcb6f6c485bad0d198224fe1c2aff95b7" target='_blank'>Integrative modeling of the cell</a></td>
          <td>
            X. Zhong, Jihui Zhao, Liping Sun
          </td>
          <td>2022-07-01</td>
          <td>Acta Biochimica et Biophysica Sinica</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f00c1e1185e04555324536b7b62161a200197bb1" target='_blank'>Advances in systems biology modeling: 10 years of crowdsourcing DREAM challenges.</a></td>
          <td>
            Pablo Meyer, J. Saez-Rodriguez
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-01</td>
          <td>Cell systems</td>
          <td>34</td>
          <td>59</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Whole-cell modeling is “the ultimate goal” of computational systems biology and “a grand challenge for 21st century” (Tomita, Trends in Biotechnology, 2001, 19(6), 205–10). These complex, highly detailed models account for the activity of every molecule in a cell and serve as comprehensive knowledgebases for the modeled system. Their scope and utility far surpass those of other systems models. In fact, whole-cell models (WCMs) are an amalgam of several types of “system” models. The models are simulated using a hybrid modeling method where the appropriate mathematical methods for each biological process are used to simulate their behavior. Given the complexity of the models, the process of developing and curating these models is labor-intensive and to date only a handful of these models have been developed. While whole-cell models provide valuable and novel biological insights, and to date have identified some novel biological phenomena, their most important contribution has been to highlight the discrepancy between available data and observations that are used for the parametrization and validation of complex biological models. Another realization has been that current whole-cell modeling simulators are slow and to run models that mimic more complex (e.g., multi-cellular) biosystems, those need to be executed in an accelerated fashion on high-performance computing platforms. In this manuscript, we review the progress of whole-cell modeling to date and discuss some of the ways that they can be improved.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f936646174796771a7a21baffd20373ea0b02c1a" target='_blank'>Multi-scale models of whole cells: progress and challenges</a></td>
          <td>
            Konstantia Georgouli, Jae-Seung Yeom, Robert C. Blake, Ali Navid
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-07</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>5</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Motivation In recent years, applying computational modeling to systems biology has caused a substantial surge in both discovery and practical applications and a significant shift in our understanding of the complexity inherent in biological systems. Results In this perspective article, we briefly overview computational modeling in biology, highlighting recent advancements such as multi-scale modeling due to the omics revolution, single-cell technology, and integration of artificial intelligence and machine learning approaches. We also discuss the primary challenges faced: integration, standardization, model complexity, scalability, and interdisciplinary collaboration. Lastly, we highlight the contribution made by the Computational Modeling of Biological Systems (SysMod) Community of Special Interest (COSI) associated with the International Society of Computational Biology (ISCB) in driving progress within this rapidly evolving field through community engagement (via both in person and virtual meetings, social media interactions), webinars, and conferences. Availability and implementation Additional information about SysMod is available at https://sysmod.info.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1b174dea12ab92a7f7139cb9122517aefde98aa6" target='_blank'>Perspectives on computational modeling of biological systems and the significance of the SysMod community</a></td>
          <td>
            B. L. Puniya, Meghna Verma, Chiara Damiani, Shaimaa Bakr, Andreas Dräger
          </td>
          <td>2024-06-26</td>
          <td>Bioinformatics Advances</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d163721365a40adef28432faed14b90a7ff388b2" target='_blank'>Artificial Intelligence in Omics</a></td>
          <td>
            Feng Gao, Kun Huang, Yi Xing
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-01</td>
          <td>Genomics, Proteomics & Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Advanced bioinformatics analysis, such as systems biology (SysBio) and artificial intelligence (AI) approaches, including machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL), is increasingly present in stem cell (SC) research. An approximate timeline on these developments and their global impact is still lacking. We conducted a scoping review on the contribution of SysBio and AI analysis to SC research and therapy development based on literature published in PubMed between 2000 and 2024. We identified an 8-10-fold increase in research output related to all three search terms between 2000 and 2021, with a 10-fold increase in AI-related production since 2010. Use of SysBio and AI still predominates in preclinical basic research with increasing use in clinically oriented translational medicine since 2010. SysBio- and AI-related research was found all over the globe, with SysBio output led by the United States (US, n=1487), United Kingdom (UK, n=1094), Germany (n=355), The Netherlands (n=339), Russia (n=215), and France (n=149), while for AI-related research the US (n=853) and UK (n=258) take a strong lead, followed by Switzerland (n=69), The Netherlands (n=37), and Germany (n=19). The US and UK are most active in SCs publications related to AI/ML and AI/DL. The prominent use of SysBio in ESC research was recently overtaken by prominent use of AI in iPSC and MSC research. This study reveals the global evolution and growing intersection between AI, SysBio, and SC research over the past two decades, with substantial growth in all three fields and exponential increases in AI-related research in the past decade.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/db16765f7316066330145d1b49c8618dbe1ba09e" target='_blank'>The Global Evolution and Impact of Systems Biology and Artificial Intelligence in Stem Cell Research and Therapeutics Development: A Scoping Review.</a></td>
          <td>
            Thayna Silva-Sousa, J. Usuda, N. Al-Arawe, Francisca Frias, I. Hinterseher, R. Catar, Christian Luecht, Katarina Riesner, Alexander Hackel, L. Schimke, Haroldo Dutra Dias, I. Filgueiras, Helder I Nakaya, N. O. S. Câmara, Stefan Fischer, G. Riemekasten, Olle Ringdén, O. Penack, Tobias Winkler, Georg Duda, D. Fonseca, O. Cabral-Marques, Guido Moll
          </td>
          <td>2024-09-04</td>
          <td>Stem cells</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>