---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-17 18:05:33 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>A QSP model of prostate cancer immunotherapy to identify effective combination therapies</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Immunotherapy has shown great potential in the treatment of cancer; however, only a fraction of patients respond to treatment, and many experience autoimmune‐related side effects. The pharmaceutical industry has relied on mathematical models to study the behavior of candidate drugs and more recently, complex, whole‐body, quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) models have become increasingly popular for discovery and development. QSP modeling has the potential to discover novel predictive biomarkers as well as test the efficacy of treatment plans and combination therapies through virtual clinical trials. In this work, we present a QSP modeling platform for immuno‐oncology (IO) that incorporates detailed mechanisms for important immune interactions. This modular platform allows for the construction of QSP models of IO with varying degrees of complexity based on the research questions. Finally, we demonstrate the use of the platform through two example applications of immune checkpoint therapy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/750c1aa4fc2f364ea1febcf5761c49bd89bc2f93" target='_blank'>QSP‐IO: A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Toolbox for Mechanistic Multiscale Modeling for Immuno‐Oncology Applications</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Sové, M. Jafarnejad, Chen Zhao, Hanwen Wang, Huilin Ma, A. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-02</td>
          <td>CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology</td>
          <td>39</td>
          <td>69</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modern cancer immunotherapy has revolutionised oncology and carries the potential to radically change the approach to cancer treatment. However, numerous questions remain to be answered to understand immunotherapy response better and further improve the benefit for future cancer patients. Computational models are promising tools that can contribute to accelerated immunotherapy research by providing new clues and hypotheses that could be tested in future trials, based on preceding simulations in addition to the empirical rationale. In this topical review, we briefly summarise the history of cancer immunotherapy, including computational modelling of traditional cancer immunotherapy, and comprehensively review computational models of modern cancer immunotherapy, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (as monotherapy and combination treatment), co-stimulatory agonistic antibodies, bispecific antibodies, and chimeric antigen receptor T cells. The modelling approaches are classified into one of the following categories: data-driven top-down vs mechanistic bottom-up, simplistic vs detailed, continuous vs discrete, and hybrid. Several common modelling approaches are summarised, such as pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models, Lotka–Volterra models, evolutionary game theory models, quantitative systems pharmacology models, spatio-temporal models, agent-based models, and logic-based models. Pros and cons of each modelling approach are critically discussed, particularly with the focus on the potential for successful translation into immuno-oncology research and routine clinical practice. Specific attention is paid to calibration and validation of each model, which is a necessary prerequisite for any successful model, and at the same time, one of the main obstacles. Lastly, we provide guidelines and suggestions for the future development of the field.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/62c69387fe4f031dfad70073875b6cf0e2738498" target='_blank'>Computational modelling of modern cancer immunotherapy</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Valentinuzzi, R. Jeraj
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-22</td>
          <td>Physics in Medicine & Biology</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Drug development in oncology commonly exploits the tools of molecular biology to gain therapeutic benefit through reprograming of cellular responses. In immuno‐oncology (IO) the aim is to direct the patient’s own immune system to fight cancer. After remarkable successes of antibodies targeting PD1/PD‐L1 and CTLA4 receptors in targeted patient populations, the focus of further development has shifted toward combination therapies. However, the current drug‐development approach of exploiting a vast number of possible combination targets and dosing regimens has proven to be challenging and is arguably inefficient. In particular, the unprecedented number of clinical trials testing different combinations may no longer be sustainable by the population of available patients. Further development in IO requires a step change in selection and validation of candidate therapies to decrease development attrition rate and limit the number of clinical trials. Quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) proposes to tackle this challenge through mechanistic modeling and simulation. Compounds’ pharmacokinetics, target binding, and mechanisms of action as well as existing knowledge on the underlying tumor and immune system biology are described by quantitative, dynamic models aiming to predict clinical results for novel combinations. Here, we review the current QSP approaches, the legacy of mathematical models available to quantitative clinical pharmacologists describing interaction between tumor and immune system, and the recent development of IO QSP platform models. We argue that QSP and virtual patients can be integrated as a new tool in existing IO drug development approaches to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the search for novel combination therapies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ffe4c7719ed81361b93340d169c24788387a66ae" target='_blank'>Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Approaches for Immuno‐Oncology: Adding Virtual Patients to the Development Paradigm</a></td>
          <td>
            Vijayalakshmi Chelliah, Georgia Lazarou, Sumit Bhatnagar, J. Gibbs, M. Nijsen, Avijit Ray, B. Stoll, R. Thompson, A. Gulati, S. Soukharev, A. Yamada, Jared Weddell, Hiroyuki Sayama, Masayo Oishi, S. Wittemer-Rump, C. Patel, Christoph Niederalt, R. Burghaus, Christian Scheerans, J. Lippert, S. Kabilan, I. Kareva, N. Belousova, A. Rolfe, A. Zutshi, M. Chenel, Filippo Venezia, Sylvain Fouliard, H. Oberwittler, A. Scholer-Dahirel, H. Lelièvre, D. Bottino, Sabrina C. Collins, Hoa Q. Nguyen, Haiqing Wang, Tomoki Yoneyama, Andy Z. X. Zhu, Piet H. Graaf, A. Kierzek
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-19</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics</td>
          <td>51</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2b65ba1404d8d661ad5e10d9ca98efe2dd8af6c0" target='_blank'>Towards integrative systems pharmacology models in oncology drug development.</a></td>
          <td>
            J. G. V. van Hasselt, Piet H. van der Graaf
          </td>
          <td>2015-08-01</td>
          <td>Drug discovery today. Technologies</td>
          <td>36</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Understanding the intricate interactions of cancer cells with the tumor microenvironment (TME) is a pre-requisite for the optimization of immunotherapy. Mechanistic models such as quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) provide insights into the TME dynamics and predict the efficacy of immunotherapy in virtual patient populations/digital twins but require vast amounts of multimodal data for parameterization. Large-scale datasets characterizing the TME are available due to recent advances in bioinformatics for multi-omics data. Here, we discuss the perspectives of leveraging omics-derived bioinformatics estimates to inform QSP models and circumvent the challenges of model calibration and validation in immuno-oncology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/771e6ee84353828e640c230c07c64013c8803ab5" target='_blank'>Leveraging multi-omics data to empower quantitative systems pharmacology in immuno-oncology</a></td>
          <td>
            Theinmozhi Arulraj, Hanwen Wang, Alberto Ippolito, Shuming Zhang, E. Fertig, Aleksander S. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-27</td>
          <td>Briefings in Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cancer immunotherapy focuses on stimulating and promoting the immune system to recognize and eliminate cancer cells, with several FDA approvals in recent years. However, identifying patients best suited for specific immune therapies, and determining optimal treatment regimens continue to be a clinical challenge. Using a molecular-detailed computational systems pharmacology model to identify cellular biomarkers and optimize regimens, we may be able to predict the efficacy of regimens in specific patient populations, and expedite drug development for cancer treatment. We developed a cell/receptor-based multi-compartment systems pharmacology model focusing on the immune response against a growing tumor, with the intent to test the effects of immune checkpoint inhibitors against PD-1, PD-L1 and CTLA-4 administered as mono- and combination therapies. Additionally, the model also allows for testing of other immuno-therapies, such as adoptive cell therapies, which can be combined with the checkpoint inhibitors. The model was designed and developed using the SimBiology plug-in in MATLAB. Simulations were performed with parameters that define the immune response at particular tumor stages of melanoma and NSCLC. All results were qualitatively and quantitatively compared to experimental pre-clinical and clinical data for model validation, or used for the generation of predictions suitable for further experimental testing. In silico, we have identified that administrations of the prescribed doses of 1-10 mg/kg of anti-CLTA-4 (based on binding kinetics) effectively saturates the receptors on the T cells, and promotes both an extended life span of the antigen presenting cells (APCs), and the maximum attainable activation levels of the effector T cells. The model further predicts that the effectiveness of anti-CTLA-4 therapy is limited by the immunogenicity of the system (i.e., the antigen intensity level and number of APCs presenting the antigens) in a monotonic fashion. Furthermore, injecting activated APCs without therapy would show a temporary tumor response and a subsequent recovery by the tumor to its original growth trajectory, while raising the antigen intensity had a sustained effect on tumor response. Other simulations indicate that, despite the lack of apparent tumor response, a sustained immune attack may be ongoing in the body; however, the immune activity is proportionally limited by the tumor and regulatory cells. Lastly, several dose-responses and clinical trials were simulated for both combination and monotherapies, and correlated with published clinical trial data. Future work will focus on uncovering the cellular biomarkers responsible for such results, experimentally validating them, as well as simulating optimal combination treatment regimens for future evaluation. Citation Format: Oleg Milberg, Chang Gong, Bing Wang, Paolo Vicini, Rajesh Narwal, Lorin Roskos, Aleksander Popel. Systems pharmacology to predict cellular biomarkers and optimize mono- and combination-therapy regimens: Focusing on immune checkpoint targets PD-1, PD-L1 and CTLA-4 [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2017; 2017 Apr 1-5; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2017;77(13 Suppl):Abstract nr 4531. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2017-4531">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ceb75efa5a87e05d34e374d801f59dcff29bafd7" target='_blank'>Abstract 4531: Systems pharmacology to predict cellular biomarkers and optimize mono- and combination-therapy regimens: Focusing on immune checkpoint targets PD-1, PD-L1 and CTLA-4</a></td>
          <td>
            Oleg Milberg, Chang Gong, B. Wang, P. Vicini, R. Narwal, L. Roskos, A. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2017-07-01</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>69</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Although therapeutic vaccination often induces markers of tumor-specific immunity, therapeutic responses remain rare. An improved understanding of patient-specific dynamic interactions of immunity and tumor progression, combined with personalized application of immune therapeutics would increase the efficacy of immunotherapy. Here, we developed a method to predict and enhance the individual response to immunotherapy by using personalized mathematical models, constructed in the early phase of treatment. Our approach includes an iterative real-time in-treatment evaluation of patient-specific parameters from the accruing clinical data, construction of personalized models and their validation, model-based simulation of subsequent response to ongoing therapy, and suggestion of potentially more effective patient-specific modified treatment. Using a mathematical model of prostate cancer immunotherapy, we applied our model to data obtained in a clinical investigation of an allogeneic whole-cell therapeutic prostate cancer vaccine. Personalized models for the patients who responded to treatment were derived and validated by data collected before treatment and during its early phase. Simulations, based on personalized models, suggested that an increase in vaccine dose and administration frequency would stabilize the disease in most patients. Together, our findings suggest that application of our method could facilitate development of a new paradigm for studies of in-treatment personalization of the immune agent administration regimens (P-trials), with treatment modifications restricted to an approved range, resulting in more efficacious immunotherapies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ddd27e074fa5c1279e9443c302fd07550052e083" target='_blank'>Reconsidering the paradigm of cancer immunotherapy by computationally aided real-time personalization.</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Kogan, Karin Halevi-Tobias, M. Elishmereni, Stanimir Vuk-Pavlović, Z. Agur
          </td>
          <td>2012-03-15</td>
          <td>Cancer research</td>
          <td>52</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The goal of cancer immunotherapy is to boost a patient’s immune response to a tumor. Yet, the design of an effective immunotherapy is complicated by various factors, including a potentially immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, immune-modulating effects of conventional treatments, and therapy-related toxicities. These complexities can be incorporated into mathematical and computational models of cancer immunotherapy that can then be used to aid in rational therapy design. In this review, we survey modeling approaches under the umbrella of the major challenges facing immunotherapy development, which encompass tumor classification, optimal treatment scheduling, and combination therapy design. Although overlapping, each challenge has presented unique opportunities for modelers to make contributions using analytical and numerical analysis of model outcomes, as well as optimization algorithms. We discuss several examples of models that have grown in complexity as more biological information has become available, showcasing how model development is a dynamic process interlinked with the rapid advances in tumor-immune biology. We conclude the review with recommendations for modelers both with respect to methodology and biological direction that might help keep modelers at the forefront of cancer immunotherapy development.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/161a29b3c32e37eaded637a7b1bb3c118aa6e089" target='_blank'>Addressing current challenges in cancer immunotherapy with mathematical and computational modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Konstorum, A. Vella, A. Adler, R. Laubenbacher
          </td>
          <td>2017-06-01</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>74</td>
          <td>48</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cancer immunotherapy is a rapidly developing field, with numerous drugs and therapy combinations waiting to be tested in pre-clinical and clinical settings. However, the costly and time-consuming trial-and-error approach to development of new treatment paradigms creates a research bottleneck, motivating the development of complementary approaches. Computational modelling is a compelling candidate for this task, however, difficulties associated with the validation of such models limit their use in pre-clinical and clinical settings. Here we propose a bottom-up deterministic computational model to simulate tumour response to treatment with anti-programmed-death-1 antibodies (anti-PD-1). The model was built with validation in mind, and so contains minimum number of parameters, and only four free parameters. Moreover, all model parameters can be measured experimentally. Free parameters were tuned by fitting the model to experimental data from the literature, using B16-F10 murine melanoma implanted into wild type (C57BL/6), as well as into immunodeficient (NSG) mice strains, and treated with anti-PD-1 antibodies. The model’s predictive ability was verified on two independent datasets from literature with different but well-known inputs. To identify possible biomarkers of response to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, sensitivity study of key model parameters was performed. Good agreement between the simulated tumour growth curves and the experimental data was achieved, with mean relative deviations in the range of 13%–20%. Our sensitivity study demonstrated that major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I expression was the only parameter able to clearly discriminate responders from non-responders to anti-PD-1 therapy. Additionally, the results of sensitivity studies suggest that MHC class I expression might affect the predictive ability of other biomarkers that are currently used in the clinics, such as PD-1 ligand (PD-L1) expression. Interestingly, our model predicts the best response to anti-PD-1 therapy for subjects with moderate PD-L1 values. Such computational models show promise to support, guide and accelerate future immunotherapy research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/88a12b75e53dfbf146a44de21daf57a611378db4" target='_blank'>Predicting tumour response to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy with computational modelling</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Valentinuzzi, U. Simončič, Katja Uršič, M. Vrankar, Maruša Turk, R. Jeraj
          </td>
          <td>2019-01-16</td>
          <td>Physics in Medicine & Biology</td>
          <td>23</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>