---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-02-03 06:09:15 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Real Patient and its Virtual Twin: Application of Quantitative Systems Toxicology Modelling in the Cardiac Safety Assessment of Citalopram</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="The aim of the study was to simulate the possible clinical situation of the drug overdose and to assess its electrophysiological consequences, and thus to move the M&S approach to the patient's bedside level. Cardiological consequences of citalopram overdose were simulated with use of the ToxComp system. Physiology of the 36-yo woman, 33 hours post suicidal ingestion, with high serum citalopram (477 ng/mL) and its metabolite desmethylcitalopram (123.2 ng/mL) concentration was simulated. Ionic current inhibition data were either taken from the literature or predicted with use of the extended QSAR models. Total ionic currents inhibition was simulated as the sum of inhibitions. Plasma ions concentrations and heart rate rhythm were taken from the clinical report (Tarabar 2008). QTc [ms] value with Fridericia correction was the endpoint. Four scenarios were tested assuming that either IKr current only or IKr+IKs currents are affected with various heart rates. The comparison of the observed vs. simulated QTcF values for four tested scenarios was as follows: (1) IKr/102 bpm - 524/469; (2) IKr/150 bpm - 515/511; (3) IKr+IKs/102 bpm - 524/487; (4) IKr+IKs/150 bpm - 515/524. ToxComp system predicted the electrophysiological consequences of citalopram overdose. Results indirectly suggest the role of the drug triggered multiple currents inhibition instead of dealing with hERG channel only.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/eb211fe58aea125f448a67797ef8099cc2494db9" target='_blank'>In silico prediction of the drug overdose consequences at the heart electrophysiology level</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Polak, B. Wiśniowska, K. Fijorek, A. Glinka, M. Polak, A. Mendyk
          </td>
          <td>2012-09-01</td>
          <td>2012 Computing in Cardiology</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
In silico tools are known to aid in drug cardiotoxicity assessment. However, computational models do not usually consider electrophysiological variability, which may be crucial when predicting rare adverse events such as drug-induced Torsade de Pointes (TdP). In addition, classification tools are usually binary and are not validated using an external data set. Here we analyze the role of incorporating electrophysiological variability in the prediction of drug-induced arrhythmogenic-risk, using a ternary classification and two external validation datasets.


METHODS
The effects of the 12 training CiPA drugs were simulated at three different concentrations using a single baseline model and an electrophysiologically calibrated population of models. 9 biomarkers related with action potential (AP), calcium dynamics and net charge were measured for each simulated concentration. These biomarkers were used to build ternary classifiers based on Support Vector Machines (SVM) methodology. Classifiers were validated using two external drug sets: the 16 validation CiPA drugs and 81 drugs from CredibleMeds database.


RESULTS
Population of models allowed to obtain different AP responses under the same pharmacological intervention and improve the prediction of drug-induced TdP with respect to the baseline model. The classification tools based on population of models achieve an accuracy higher than 0.8 and a mean classification error (MCE) lower than 0.3 for both validation drug sets and for the two electrophysiological action potential models studied (Tomek et al. 2020 and a modified version of O'Hara et al. 2011). In addition, simulations with population of models allowed the identification of individuals with lower conductances of IKr, IKs, and INaK and higher conductances of ICaL, INaL, and INCX, which are more prone to develop TdP.


CONCLUSIONS
The methodology presented here provides new opportunities to assess drug-induced TdP-risk, taking into account electrophysiological variability and may be helpful to improve current cardiac safety screening methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2a4822e63a052adf39b5c7211d9b67559c1b031f" target='_blank'>Considering population variability of electrophysiological models improves the in silico assessment of drug-induced torsadogenic risk</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Llopis-Lorente, B. Trénor, J. Saiz
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-01</td>
          <td>Computer methods and programs in biomedicine</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>25</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The Comprehensive In Vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) evaluates drug-induced torsade de pointes (TdP) risk, with qNet commonly used to classify drugs into low-, intermediate-, and high-risk categories. While most studies focus on single-drug effects, 2-drug fixed-dose combination (FDC) therapy is widely used for cardiovascular disease management. We aimed to develop the CiPA-based methodology to predict adverse effects of FDC therapy. A human ventricular cell model was stimulated under the effects of various drug combinations from twelve well-characterized compounds suggested by CiPA at 1 to 4 maximum plasma concentration, and the qNetavg biomarker as a function of the ratio of two drugs was used to evaluate the TdP risk of combined compounds. Results showed that high-risk and intermediate-risk drug combinations often yielded lower qNetavg than individual drugs, suggesting increased TdP risk. Conversely, combinations involving low-risk drugs tended to reduce TdP risk by raising qNetavg above individual drug levels. Also, we found that the interplay of some major ionic channels caused variations on qNetavg. These findings highlight the importance of evaluating FDC cardiotoxicity to predict risks that may not appear in single-drug analysis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f42ede5d44162968de78cb0840deff395bdb4e1f" target='_blank'>Cardiotoxicity evaluation of two-drug fixed-dose combination therapy under CiPA: a computational study</a></td>
          <td>
            Ali Ikhsanul Qauli, Aroli Marcellinus, F. Vanheusden, Ki Moo Lim
          </td>
          <td>2024-12-01</td>
          <td>Translational and Clinical Pharmacology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In silico tools hold potential to improve drug cardiotoxicity predictions. However, computational models do not usually consider inter-individual variability, which may be crucial when predicting rare adverse events such as drug-induced Torsade de Pointes (TdP). In this study we analyze the effect of incorporating inter-individual variability in the prediction of drug-induced TdP-risk. Specifically, the effects of the 12 training CiPA drugs were simulated on a single baseline model and on an electrophysiologically calibrated population of 848 models. Ternary classifiers based on support vector machines and logistic regression, were built using biomarkers obtained from simulation results. Classifiers were validated using the 16 validation CiPA drugs as an external data set. The classification accuracy increased to 80.1% when using the population of models, with respect to an accuracy of 62.4% obtained using the baseline model. Simulations with population of models allowed to identify individuals more prone to develop TdP. The methodology presented provides new opportunities to assess drug-induced TdP, taking into account inter-individual variability and may be helpful to improve current cardiac safety screening methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c5fdb0a2d3961d040471449906ea78c77be5f016" target='_blank'>Prediction of Drug-Induced Arrhythmogenic Risk Using In Silico Populations of Models</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Llopis-Lorente, B. Trénor, J. Saiz
          </td>
          <td>2021-09-13</td>
          <td>2021 Computing in Cardiology (CinC)</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>25</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Drug-induced torsade de pointes (TdP) is a life-threatening ventricular arrhythmia responsible for the withdrawal of many drugs from the market. Currently used TdP-risk assessment methods are effective but also expensive and prone to produce false positives. In recent years, in-silico cardiac simulations have proven to be a valuable tool for the prediction of drug effects. The objective of this work is to evaluate different biomarkers of drug-induced proarrhythmic risk and to develop an in-silico risk classifier. Cellular simulations were performed using a modified version of the O'Hara et al. ventricular action potential model and existing pharmacological data (IC50 and Effective Free Therapeutic Plasma Concentration, EFTPC) for 109 drugs of known torsadogenic risk (51 positive). For each compound, 4 biomarkers were tested: Tx (drug concentration leading to a 10% prolongation of the action potential over the EFTPC), TqNet (net charge carried by ionic currents when exposed to 10 times the EFTPC with respect to the net charge in control), Ttriang (triangulation for a drug concentration of 10 times the EFTPC over triangulation in control) and TEAD (drug concentration originating early afterdepolarizations over EFTPC). ROC-curves were built for each biomarker to evaluate their individual predictive quality. At the optimal cut-off point, accuracies for Tx, TqNet, Ttriang, and TEAD were 89.9%, 91.7%, 90.8%, and 78.9% respectively. The resulting accuracy of the hERG IC50 test (current biomarker) was 78.9%. When combining Tx, TqNet and Ttriang into a classifier based on decision trees, the prediction improves, achieving an accuracy of 94.5%. The sensitivity analysis revealed that most of the effects on the action potential are mainly due to changes in IKr, ICaL, INaL and IKs. In fact, considering that drugs affect only these 4 currents, TdP-risk classification can be as accurate as when considering effects on the 7 main currents proposed by the CiPA initiative. Finally, we built a ready-to-use tool (based on more than 450,000 simulations) which can be used to quickly assess the proarrhythmic risk of a compound. In conclusion, our in-silico tool can be useful for preclinical assessment of TdP-risk and to reduce costs related with new drug development. The TdP-risk assessment tool and the software used in this work are available at: https://riunet.upv.es/handle/10251/136919.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/df6103a88acf71bf60e98b77421c58cbf243c5e2" target='_blank'>In Silico Classifiers for the Assessment of Drug Proarrhythmicity</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Llopis-Lorente, J. Gomis-Tena, Jordi Cano, L. Romero, J. Saiz, B. Trénor
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-27</td>
          <td>Journal of chemical information and modeling</td>
          <td>28</td>
          <td>25</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b8bafe86a5bb5ba66e62d07e795906b20a3ae840" target='_blank'>In silico assessment on TdP risks of drug combinations under CiPA paradigm</a></td>
          <td>
            Ali Ikhsanul Qauli, Aroli Marcellinus, Muhammad Aldo Setiawan, Andi Faiz Naufal Zain, Azka Muhammad Pinandito, K. Lim
          </td>
          <td>2023-02-20</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Early prediction of cardiotoxicity is critical for drug development. Current animal models raise ethical and translational questions, and have limited accuracy in clinical risk prediction. Human-based computer models constitute a fast, cheap and potentially effective alternative to experimental assays, also facilitating translation to human. Key challenges include consideration of inter-cellular variability in drug responses and integration of computational and experimental methods in safety pharmacology. Our aim is to evaluate the ability of in silico drug trials in populations of human action potential (AP) models to predict clinical risk of drug-induced arrhythmias based on ion channel information, and to compare simulation results against experimental assays commonly used for drug testing. A control population of 1,213 human ventricular AP models in agreement with experimental recordings was constructed. In silico drug trials were performed for 62 reference compounds at multiple concentrations, using pore-block drug models (IC50/Hill coefficient). Drug-induced changes in AP biomarkers were quantified, together with occurrence of repolarization/depolarization abnormalities. Simulation results were used to predict clinical risk based on reports of Torsade de Pointes arrhythmias, and further evaluated in a subset of compounds through comparison with electrocardiograms from rabbit wedge preparations and Ca2+-transient recordings in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPS-CMs). Drug-induced changes in silico vary in magnitude depending on the specific ionic profile of each model in the population, thus allowing to identify cell sub-populations at higher risk of developing abnormal AP phenotypes. Models with low repolarization reserve (increased Ca2+/late Na+ currents and Na+/Ca2+-exchanger, reduced Na+/K+-pump) are highly vulnerable to drug-induced repolarization abnormalities, while those with reduced inward current density (fast/late Na+ and Ca2+ currents) exhibit high susceptibility to depolarization abnormalities. Repolarization abnormalities in silico predict clinical risk for all compounds with 89% accuracy. Drug-induced changes in biomarkers are in overall agreement across different assays: in silico AP duration changes reflect the ones observed in rabbit QT interval and hiPS-CMs Ca2+-transient, and simulated upstroke velocity captures variations in rabbit QRS complex. Our results demonstrate that human in silico drug trials constitute a powerful methodology for prediction of clinical pro-arrhythmic cardiotoxicity, ready for integration in the existing drug safety assessment pipelines.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b5c59e36419efbd9d8c220c75304256bb38c45e1" target='_blank'>Human In Silico Drug Trials Demonstrate Higher Accuracy than Animal Models in Predicting Clinical Pro-Arrhythmic Cardiotoxicity</a></td>
          <td>
            Elisa Passini, Oliver J. Britton, Hua-rong Lu, J. Rohrbacher, An N. Hermans, D. Gallacher, R. Greig, A. Bueno-Orovio, B. Rodríguez
          </td>
          <td>2017-09-12</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>238</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The preclinical identification of drug-induced cardiotoxicity and its translation into human risk are still major challenges in pharmaceutical drug discovery. The ICH S7B Guideline and Q&A on Clinical and Nonclinical Evaluation of QT/QTc Interval Prolongation and Proarrhythmic Potential promotes human in silico drug trials as a novel tool for proarrhythmia risk assessment. To facilitate the use of in silico data in regulatory submissions, explanatory control compounds should be tested and documented to demonstrate consistency between predictions and the historic validation data. This study aims to quantify drug-induced electrophysiological effects on in silico cardiac human Purkinje cells, to compare them with existing in vitro rabbit data, and to assess their accuracy for clinical pro-arrhythmic risk predictions. The effects of 14 reference compounds were quantified in simulations with a population of in silico human cardiac Purkinje models. For each drug dose, five electrophysiological biomarkers were quantified at three pacing frequencies, and results compared with available in vitro experiments and clinical proarrhythmia reports. Three key results were obtained: 1) In silico, repolarization abnormalities in human Purkinje simulations predicted drug-induced arrhythmia for all risky compounds, showing higher predicted accuracy than rabbit experiments; 2) Drug-induced electrophysiological changes observed in human-based simulations showed a high degree of consistency with in vitro rabbit recordings at all pacing frequencies, and depolarization velocity and action potential duration were the most consistent biomarkers; 3) discrepancies observed for dofetilide, sotalol and terfenadine are mainly caused by species differences between humans and rabbit. Taken together, this study demonstrates higher accuracy of in silico methods compared to in vitro animal models for pro-arrhythmic risk prediction, as well as a high degree of consistency with in vitro experiments commonly used in safety pharmacology, supporting the potential for industrial and regulatory adoption of in silico trials for proarrhythmia prediction.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/97d48b665be8868798f6da38fcbb03d19322382f" target='_blank'>Cross clinical-experimental-computational qualification of in silico drug trials on human cardiac purkinje cells for proarrhythmia risk prediction</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Trovato, M. Mohr, Friedemann Schmidt, Elisa Passini, B. Rodríguez
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-16</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Toxicology</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Drug-induced arrhythmia continues to be a major health issue worldwide. The need for reliable pro-arrhythmic predictors became relevant during early phases of the SarsCoV2 pandemic, when it was uncertain whether the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin (AZM) could be more harmful than beneficial due to their reported pro-arrhythmic effects. In this work we describe a computational framework that employs a gender-specific, in-silico cardiac population to assess cardiac drug-induced QT-prolongation after the administration of a single or a combination of potentially cardiotoxic drugs as HCQ and AZM. This novel computational methodology is capable of reproducing the complex behavior of the clinical electrocardiographic response to drug-induced arrhythmic risk, in-silico. Using high performance computing, the computational framework allows the estimation of the arrhythmic risk in a population, given a variety of doses of one or more drugs in a timely manner and providing markers that can be directly related to the clinical scenario. The pro-arrhythmic behavior observed in subjects within the in-silico trial, was also compared to supplemental in-vitro experiments on a reanimated swine hearts. Evidence of transmurally heterogeneous action potential prolongation after the administration of a large dose of HCQ was an observed mechanism of arrhythmia, both in the in-vitro and the in-silico model. The virtual clinical trial also provided remarkably similar results to recent published clinical data. In conclusion, the in-silico clinical trial on the cardiac population is capable of reproducing and providing evidence of the normal phenotype variants that produce distinct arrhythmogenic outcomes after the administration of one or various drugs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/66a7d8b5b4cc8015c09e39f9f36c891f7edf5cf4" target='_blank'>In-silico clinical trial using high performance computational modeling of a virtual human cardiac population to assess drug-induced arrhythmic risk</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Aguado-Sierra, C. Butakoff, R. Brigham, A. Baron, G. Houzeaux, J. Guerra, F. Carreras, D. Filgueiras-Rama, P. Iaizzo, T. Iles, M. Vázquez
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-22</td>
          <td>None</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract A common but serious side effect of many drugs is torsades de pointes, a rhythm disorder that can have fatal consequences. Torsadogenic risk has traditionally been associated with blockage of a specific potassium channel and an increased recovery period in the electrocardiogram. However, the mechanisms that trigger torsades de pointes remain incompletely understood. Here we establish a computational model to explore how drug-induced effects propagate from the single channel, via the single cell, to the whole heart level. Our mechanistic exposure–response simulator translates block-concentration characteristics for arbitrary drugs into three-dimensional excitation profiles and electrocardiogram recordings to rapidly assess torsadogenic risk. For the drug of dofetilide, we show that this risk is highly dose-dependent: at a concentration of 1x, QT prolongation is 55% but the heart maintains its regular sinus rhythm; at 5.7x, QT prolongation is 102% and the heart spontaneously transitions into torsades de points; at 30x, QT prolongation is 132% and the heart adapts a quasi-depolarized state with numerous rapidly flickering local excitations. Our simulations suggest that neither potassium channel blockage nor QT interval prolongation alone trigger torsades de pointes. The underlying mechanism predicted by our model is early afterdepolarization, which translates into pronounced U waves in the electrocardiogram, a signature that is correctly predicted by our model. Beyond the risk assessment of existing drugs, our exposure–response simulator can become a powerful tool to optimize the co-administration of drugs and, ultimately, guide the design of new drugs toward reducing life threatening drug-induced rhythm disorders in the heart.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e85e8df0f3f4124ff1d0ea46318186ab2d02ffc9" target='_blank'>Predicting the cardiac toxicity of drugs using a novel multiscale exposure–response simulator</a></td>
          <td>
            F. Sahli Costabal, Jiang Yao, E. Kuhl
          </td>
          <td>2018-02-17</td>
          <td>Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering</td>
          <td>26</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f0a1ee65b51408399ae4d94d42ebf85336ea7ae" target='_blank'>Virtual clinical QT exposure-response studies - A translational computational approach.</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Aguado-Sierra, P. Dominguez-Gomez, Ani Amar, C. Butakoff, Michael Leitner, Stefan Schaper, Jan M. Kriegl, Borje Darpo, Mariano Vázquez, G. Rast
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-01</td>
          <td>Journal of pharmacological and toxicological methods</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Introduction: Predicting ventricular arrhythmia Torsade de Pointes (TdP) caused by drug-induced cardiotoxicity is essential in drug development. Several studies used single biomarkers such as qNet and Repolarization Abnormality (RA) in a single cardiac cell model to evaluate TdP risk. However, a single biomarker may not encompass the full range of factors contributing to TdP risk, leading to divergent TdP risk prediction outcomes, mainly when evaluated using unseen data. We addressed this issue by utilizing multi-in silico features from a population of human ventricular cell models that could capture a representation of the underlying mechanisms contributing to TdP risk to provide a more reliable assessment of drug-induced cardiotoxicity. Method: We generated a virtual population of human ventricular cell models using a modified O’Hara-Rudy model, allowing inter-individual variation. IC50 and Hill coefficients from 67 drugs were used as input to simulate drug effects on cardiac cells. Fourteen features ( dVmdtrepol , dVmdtmax , Vmpeak , Vmresting , APDtri , APD90 , APD50 , Capeak , Cadiastole , Catri , CaD90 , CaD50 , qNet, qInward) could be generated from the simulation and used as input to several machine learning models, including k-nearest neighbor (KNN), Random Forest (RF), XGBoost, and Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). Optimization of the machine learning model was performed using a grid search to select the best parameter of the proposed model. We applied five-fold cross-validation while training the model with 42 drugs and evaluated the model’s performance with test data from 25 drugs. Result: The proposed ANN model showed the highest performance in predicting the TdP risk of drugs by providing an accuracy of 0.923 (0.908–0.937), sensitivity of 0.926 (0.909–0.942), specificity of 0.921 (0.906–0.935), and AUC score of 0.964 (0.954–0.975). Discussion and conclusion: According to the performance results, combining the electrophysiological model including inter-individual variation and optimization of machine learning showed good generalization ability when evaluated using the unseen dataset and produced a reliable drug-induced TdP risk prediction system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8c8faecd13bd502774c625ef431d90eee383076c" target='_blank'>Machine learning approach to evaluate TdP risk of drugs using cardiac electrophysiological model including inter-individual variability</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Fuadah, Ali Ikhsanul Qauli, Aroli Marcellinus, M. A. Pramudito, Ki Moo Lim
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-04</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this paper, we illustrate how advanced computational modelling and simulation can be used to investigate drug-induced effects on cardiac electrophysiology and on specific biomarkers of pro-arrhythmic risk. To do so, we first perform a thorough literature review of proposed arrhythmic risk biomarkers from the ionic to the electrocardiogram levels. The review highlights the variety of proposed biomarkers, the complexity of the mechanisms of drug-induced pro-arrhythmia and the existence of significant animal species differences in drug-induced effects on cardiac electrophysiology. Predicting drug-induced pro-arrhythmic risk solely using experiments is challenging both preclinically and clinically, as attested by the rise in the cost of releasing new compounds to the market. Computational modelling and simulation has significantly contributed to the understanding of cardiac electrophysiology and arrhythmias over the last 40 years. In the second part of this paper, we illustrate how state-of-the-art open source computational modelling and simulation tools can be used to simulate multi-scale effects of drug-induced ion channel block in ventricular electrophysiology at the cellular, tissue and whole ventricular levels for different animal species. We believe that the use of computational modelling and simulation in combination with experimental techniques could be a powerful tool for the assessment of drug safety pharmacology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/afb94fca006e4864dd28f7b707df989df25f9ba3" target='_blank'>Arrhythmic risk biomarkers for the assessment of drug cardiotoxicity: from experiments to computer simulations</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Corrias, Xiao Jie, Lucia Romero, Martin J. Bishop, M. Bernabeu, E. Pueyo, E. Pueyo, Blanca Rodríguez
          </td>
          <td>2010-06-28</td>
          <td>Philosophical transactions. Series A, Mathematical, physical, and engineering sciences</td>
          <td>51</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b7fc137cec17d1e9f7a831f16d621abd2f421df7" target='_blank'>Predictive Computational Pharmacology: From Atom to Rhythm</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Clancy
          </td>
          <td>2017-02-03</td>
          <td>Biophysical Journal</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Multiscale computational models of heart are being extensively investigated for improved assessment of drug-induced Torsades de Pointes (TdP) risk, a fatal side effect of many drugs. Model-derived metrics (features) such as action potential duration, net charge carried by ionic currents (qNet) and others have been proposed in the past as potential candidates for classifying TdP risk. However, the criteria for selection of new risk metrics are still poorly justified, and they are often trained/tested only on small datasets. Moreover, classifiers built on derived features have thus far not consistently provided increased prediction accuracies compared to classifiers based on in vitro measurements of drug effects on ion channels (direct features). In this paper, we analyze a large population of virtual drugs to examine systematically the sensitivity of several model-derived features. The influence of different ion channels in regulation of the model-derived features is identified using global sensitivity analysis (GSA). Specifically, the analysis points to key differences in the input parameters that affect several model-derived features and the generation of early afterdepolarizations (EAD), thus opposing the idea that these features and sensitivity to EAD might be strongly correlated. We also demonstrate that previously proposed model-derived features could be well fitted by a linear combination of direct features. This well explains the observed comparable performances of classifiers built on direct features and model-derived features. Combining GSA and simple probability analysis, we also show that the odds of any linear metric constructed from direct features to perform as well as qNet is very low. Nevertheless, despite high predictive power of qNet to separate drugs into correct categories of TdP risk, the GSA results suggest that the actual mechanistic interpretation for qNet’s improved performance deserves further investigation. In conclusion, analyses like ours can provide more robust feature selection/construction. Improved experimental designs with increased focus on the critical model parameters indicated by GSA can potentially reduce the uncertainties of key model components and result in increased confidence of TdP risk predicted by in silico models. Author Summary Biophysical models often have extremely involved intrinsic structure. In the majority of research, either complex methods of non-linear dynamics and empirical analysis are employed to explore the underlying structure of cell processes such as transmembrane ionic currents. Global sensitivity analysis (GSA) could be considered as a brute force alternative to study the model relationships between physical processes, discovering the mechanisms responsible for phenomena of interest. As we demonstrated here, GSA application could be extended to explore the structure of features derived from outputs of biophysical models and used in statistical models to build regressions or classifiers. In particular, GSA seems to be valuable to formalize the methods of feature selection/construction that are used for classification of drugs with respect to their cardiotoxicity.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/23b56d0a9ee0393e22180aeebbedc722971663ac" target='_blank'>Intrinsic structure of model-derived metrics for in silico proarrhytmic risk assessment identified by global sensitivity analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Jaimit Parikh, P. Di Achille, J. Kozloski, V. Gurev
          </td>
          <td>2019-02-07</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A wide range of drug classes, including antibiotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antiarrhythmics, and others, have been shown to prolong the QT interval on the ECG, with the potential to cause Torsdaes de Pointe (TdP) arrhythmias and sudden death in about 25% of patients. This arrhythmic risk, associated with QT prolongation (acquired long-QT syndrome), was identified in the early 1920s, when quinidine was reported to cause sudden cardiac death in 5 of 460 patients analyzed. In the 1990s, it was recognized that acquired long-QT syndrome and TdP are associated with pharmacological block of the rapid delayed rectifier potassium current, IKr, through an ion channel encoded by the human ether-à-go-go related gene (hERG, also called KCNH2). This realization led to the establishment of 2 regulatory guidelines (S7B and E14) for cardiac safety assessment by the International Council on Harmonization. These guidelines center on identifying drugs that cause IKr block and prolong cardiac repolarization and the QT interval on the ECG. This paradigm has proven very effective in removing the risk of approving drugs with the potential to cause TdP. Unfortunately, the high sensitivity of the IKr-centric approach comes at the cost of low specificity and exclusion of many potentially useful drugs that may not cause TdP despite IKr block and QT prolongation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/796577cdc7c2ff69f24b90874cd797dc1e6cc896" target='_blank'>In Silico Pipeline for Drug Cardiotoxicity Assessment.</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Rudy
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-10</td>
          <td>Circulation Research</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>79</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In 2005, the International Council for Harmonization (ICH) established cardiotoxicity assessment guidelines to identify the risk of Torsade de Pointes (TdP). It is focused on the blockade of the human ether-à-go-go-related gene (hERG) channel known to cause QT/QTc prolongation and the QT/QTc prolongation shown on the electrocardiogram. However, these biomarkers are not the direct risks of TdP with low specificity as the action potential is influenced by multiple channels along with the hERG channel. Comprehensive in vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) initiative emerged to address limitations of the current model. The objective of CiPA is to develop a standardized in silico model of a human ventricular cell to quantitively evaluate the cardiac response for the cardiac toxicity risk and to come up with a metric for the TdP risk assessment. In silico working group under CiPA developed a standardized and reliable in silico model and a metric that can quantitatively evaluate cellular cardiac electrophysiologic activity. The implementation mainly consists of hERG fitting, Hill fitting, and action potential simulation. In this review, we explained how the in silico model of CiPA works, and briefly summarized current overall CiPA studies. We hope this review helps clinical pharmacologists to understand the underlying estimation process of CiPA in silico modeling.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/680ef039f769838b0bdc2f2f1178a1aa48d461e3" target='_blank'>Introduction to in silico model for proarrhythmic risk assessment under the CiPA initiative</a></td>
          <td>
            Jin-sol Park, J. Jeon, Ji-Ho Yang, Min-Gul Kim
          </td>
          <td>2019-03-01</td>
          <td>Translational and Clinical Pharmacology</td>
          <td>22</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a1980705ef1c474e5e9e3eea6c841c3b38768746" target='_blank'>Computational approaches to understand the adverse drug effect on potassium, sodium and calcium channels for predicting TdP cardiac arrhythmias.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Sharifi
          </td>
          <td>2017-09-01</td>
          <td>Journal of molecular graphics & modelling</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6c60149a1de3656e3c1d990c66cba2c25d0e5108" target='_blank'>Recent developments in using mechanistic cardiac modelling for drug safety evaluation</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Davies, Ken Wang, Gary R. Mirams, A. Caruso, D. Noble, A. Walz, T. Lavé, F. Schuler, T. Singer, L. Polonchuk
          </td>
          <td>2016-06-01</td>
          <td>Drug Discovery Today</td>
          <td>62</td>
          <td>55</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Emerging practice in drug safety assessment delivers relatively early data on the potency of compounds at a range of cardiac ion channels, but there is little consensus on how to use this data to understand human risk, particularly when a compound modifies a range of mutually compensatory electrophysiological processes. In-silico physiological modelling of the processes involved offers a method to achieve this understanding but the models in the literature are not yet widely validated in the presence of a range of pharmacological profiles. We have used a model of canine ventricular myocytes and retrained it to data from a series of action potential (AP) recordings on isolated canine myocytes. By representing inter-animal variability by using an ensemble of parameters sets, we are able to evaluate the likely impact of novel compounds on a series of virtual dogs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d3611927e2046cf959d783c82f6f7ea3c5f7f880" target='_blank'>Systems biology in drug safety assessment: Use of a recalibrated hund-rudy model to predict the effect of novel drug compounds on action potential duration</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Davies, H. Mistry, L. Hussein, N. Abi-Gerges, C. Pollard, J. Swinton
          </td>
          <td>2010-09-01</td>
          <td>2010 Computing in Cardiology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Many researchers have suggested evaluation methods and Torsades de Pointes (TdP) metrics to assess the proarrhythmic risk of a drug based on the in silico simulation, as part of the Comprehensive in-vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) project. In the previous study, we validated the robustness of 12 in silico features using the ordinal logistic regression (OLR) model by comparing the classification performances of metrics according to the in-vitro experimental datasets used; however, the OLR model using 12 in silico features did not provide desirable results. This study proposed a convolutional neural network (CNN) model using the variability of promising in silico TdP metrics hypothesizing that the variability of in silico features based on beats has more information than the single value of in silico features. We performed the action potential (AP) simulation using a human ventricular myocyte model to calculate seven in silico features representing the electrophysiological cell states of drug effects over 1,000 beats: qNet, qInward, intracellular calcium duration at returning to 50% baseline (CaD50) and 90% baseline (CaD90), AP duration at 50% repolarization (APD50) and 90% repolarization (APD90), and dVm/dtMax_repol. The proposed CNN classifier was trained using 12 train drugs and tested using 16 test drugs among CiPA drugs. The torsadogenic risk of drugs was classified as high, intermediate, and low risks. We determined the CNN classifier by comparing the classification performance according to the variabilities of seven in silico biomarkers computed from the in silico drug simulation using the Chantest dataset. The proposed CNN classifier performed the best when using qInward variability to classify the TdP-risk drugs with 0.94 AUC for high risk and 0.93 AUC for low risk. In addition, the final CNN classifier was validated using the qInward variability obtained after merging three in-vitro datasets, but the model performance decreased to a moderate level of 0.75 and 0.78 AUC. These results suggest the need for the proposed CNN model to be trained and tested using various types of drugs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/262eab862221d08272cf7c380ec8cf9320b47798" target='_blank'>qInward variability-based in-silico proarrhythmic risk assessment of drugs using deep learning model</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Jeong, Nurul Qashri Mahardika T, Aroli Marcellinus, K. Lim
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-14</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Objective: A regulatory science priority at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is to promote the development of new innovative tools such as reliable and validated computational (in silico) models. This FDA Critical Path Initiative project involved the development of predictive clinical computational models for decision-support in CDER evaluations of QT/QTc interval prolongation and proarrhythmic potential for non-antiarrhythmic drugs. Methods: Several classification models were built using predictive technologies of quantitative structure–activity relationship analysis using clinical in-house and public data on induction of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in humans. Specific models were geared toward prediction of high-risk drugs with attention to outcomes from thorough QT studies and TdP risk based on clinical in-house data. Models used were independent of non-clinical data or known molecular mechanisms. The positive predictive performance of the in silico models was validated using cross-validation and independent external validation test sets. Results: Optimal performance was observed with high sensitivity (87%) and high specificity (88%) for predicting QT interval prolongation using in-house data, and 77% sensitivity in predicting drugs withdrawn from the market. Furthermore, the article describes alerting substructural features based on drugs tested in the clinical trials. Conclusions: The in silico models provide evidence of a structure-based explanation for these cardiac safety endpoints. The models will be made publically available and are under continual prospective external validation testing and updating at CDER using TQT study outcomes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37f768bd7675788f706ee11f75540aa26e150688" target='_blank'>Development of cardiac safety translational tools for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes</a></td>
          <td>
            L. Valerio, S. Balakrishnan, M. Fiszman, Devi Kozeli, Mike Li, Sarvin Moghaddam, N. Sadrieh
          </td>
          <td>2013-06-17</td>
          <td>Expert Opinion on Drug Metabolism & Toxicology</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="To predict the safety of a drug at an early stage in its development is a major challenge as there is a lack of in vitro heart models that correlate data from preclinical toxicity screening assays with clinical results. A biophysically detailed computer model of the heart, the virtual heart, provides a powerful tool for simulating drug–ion channel interactions and cardiac functions during normal and disease conditions and, therefore, provides a powerful platform for drug cardiotoxicity screening. In this article, we first review recent progress in the development of theory on drug–ion channel interactions and mathematical modelling. Then we propose a family of biomarkers that can quantitatively characterize the actions of a drug on the electrical activity of the heart at multi‐physical scales including cellular and tissue levels. We also conducted some simulations to demonstrate the application of the virtual heart to assess the pro‐arrhythmic effects of cisapride and amiodarone. Using the model we investigated the mechanisms responsible for the differences between the two drugs on pro‐arrhythmogenesis, even though both prolong the QT interval of ECGs. Several challenges for further development of a virtual heart as a platform for screening drug cardiotoxicity are discussed.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1bf86279777c2118dff363829bf10fea52f5e57b" target='_blank'>The virtual heart as a platform for screening drug cardiotoxicity</a></td>
          <td>
            Yongfeng Yuan, Xiangyun Bai, Cunjin Luo, Kuanquan Wang, Henggui Zhang
          </td>
          <td>2015-01-13</td>
          <td>British Journal of Pharmacology</td>
          <td>41</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Safety pharmacology examines the potential for new drugs to have unusual, rare side effects such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Recently, as a part of the Comprehensive in vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) project, techniques for predicting the development of drug-induced TdP through computer simulations have been proposed and verified. However, CiPA assessment generally does not consider the effect of cardiac cell inter-individual variability, especially related to metabolic status. The study aimed to explore whether rare proarrhythmic effects may be linked to the inter-individual variability of cardiac cells and whether incorporating this variability into computational models could alter the prediction of drugs’ TdP risks. This study evaluated the contribution of two biological characteristics to the proarrhythmic effects. The first was spermine concentration, which varies with metabolic status; the second was L-type calcium permeability that could occur due to mutations. Twenty-eight drugs were examined throughout this study, and qNet was analyzed as an essential feature. Even though there were some discrepancies of TdP risk predictions from the baseline model, we found that considering the inter-individual variability might change the TdP risk of drugs. Several drugs in the high-risk drugs group were predicted to affect as intermediate and low-risk drugs in some individuals and vice versa. Also, most intermediate-risk drugs were expected to act as low-risk drugs. When compared, the effects of inter-individual variability of L-type calcium were more significant than spermine in altering the TdP risk of compounds. These results emphasize the importance of considering inter-individual variability to assess drugs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f55130255c3dd05c967652c76cfbfd1157f7d83c" target='_blank'>Development of in-silico drug cardiac toxicity evaluation system with consideration of inter-individual variability</a></td>
          <td>
            Ali Ikhsanul Qauli, Rakha Zharfarizqi Danadibrata, Aroli Marcellinus, Ki Moo Lim
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-29</td>
          <td>Translational and Clinical Pharmacology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>6</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Drug-induced Torsade-de-Pointes (TdP) has been responsible for the withdrawal of many drugs from the market and is therefore of major concern to global regulatory agencies and the pharmaceutical industry. The Comprehensive in vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) was proposed to improve prediction of TdP risk, using in silico models and in vitro multi-channel pharmacology data as integral parts of this initiative. Previously, we reported that combining dynamic interactions between drugs and the rapid delayed rectifier potassium current (IKr) with multi-channel pharmacology is important for TdP risk classification, and we modified the original O'Hara Rudy ventricular cell mathematical model to include a Markov model of IKr to represent dynamic drug-IKr interactions (IKr-dynamic ORd model). We also developed a novel metric that could separate drugs with different TdP liabilities at high concentrations based on total electronic charge carried by the major inward ionic currents during the action potential. In this study, we further optimized the IKr-dynamic ORd model by refining model parameters using published human cardiomyocyte experimental data under control and drug block conditions. Using this optimized model and manual patch clamp data, we developed an updated version of the metric that quantifies the net electronic charge carried by major inward and outward ionic currents during the steady state action potential, which could classify the level of drug-induced TdP risk across a wide range of concentrations and pacing rates. We also established a framework to quantitatively evaluate a system's robustness against the induction of early afterdepolarizations (EADs), and demonstrated that the new metric is correlated with the cell's robustness to the pro-EAD perturbation of IKr conductance reduction. In summary, in this work we present an optimized model that is more consistent with experimental data, an improved metric that can classify drugs at concentrations both near and higher than clinical exposure, and a physiological framework to check the relationship between a metric and EAD. These findings provide a solid foundation for using in silico models for the regulatory assessment of TdP risk under the CiPA paradigm.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c1c449bd61b88b51350dc7278ff12608c2008544" target='_blank'>Optimization of an In silico Cardiac Cell Model for Proarrhythmia Risk Assessment</a></td>
          <td>
            Sara Dutta, Kelly C. Chang, K. Beattie, Jiansong Sheng, Phu N. Tran, Wendy W Wu, Min Wu, D. Strauss, T. Colatsky, Zhihua Li
          </td>
          <td>2017-08-23</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>51</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Torsades de Pointes (TdP) is a type of ventricular arrhythmia which could be observed as an unwanted drug-induced cardiac side effect, and it is associated with repolarization abnormalities in single cells. The pharmacological evaluations of TdP risk in previous years mainly focused on the hERG channel due to its vital role in the repolarization of cardiomyocytes. However, only considering drug effects on hERG led to false positive predictions since the drug action on other ion channels can also have crucial regulatory effects on repolarization. To address the limitation of only evaluating hERG, the Comprehensive in Vitro Proarrhythmia Assay initiative has proposed to systematically integrate drug effects on multiple ion channels into in silico drug trial to improve TdP risk assessment. It is not clear how many ion channels are sufficient for reliable TdP risk predictions, and whether differences in IC50 and Hill coefficient values from independent sources can lead to divergent in silico prediction outcomes. The rationale of this work is to investigate the above two questions using a computationally efficient population of human ventricular cells optimized to favor repolarization abnormality. Our blinded results based on two independent data sources confirm that simulations with the optimized population of human ventricular cell models enable efficient in silico drug screening, and also provide direct observation and mechanistic analysis of repolarization abnormality. Our results show that 1) the minimum set of ion channels required for reliable TdP risk predictions are Nav1.5 (peak), Cav1.2, and hERG; 2) for drugs with multiple ion channel blockage effects, moderate IC50 variations combined with variable Hill coefficients can affect the accuracy of in silico predictions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e55e3d0c9831a7b37d7c9764f525a76bde43e5ce" target='_blank'>Blinded In Silico Drug Trial Reveals the Minimum Set of Ion Channels for Torsades de Pointes Risk Assessment</a></td>
          <td>
            Xin Zhou, Yusheng Qu, Elisa Passini, A. Bueno-Orovio, Yang Liu, H. Vargas, B. Rodríguez
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-30</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Pharmacology</td>
          <td>29</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The assessment of proarrhythmic liability has assumed considerable importance in drug development. Such liability is couched in terms of evaluating the degree to which an investigational drug lengthens the QT interval as seen on the surface electrocardiogram (ECG), defined as the time interval from the onset of the Q wave to the offset of the T wave. Two ICH guidelines released in 2005, S7B and E14, addressed nonclinical and clinical proarrhythmic assessments, respectively, and a subsequent E14 Questions and Answers document provided additional commentary on clinical evaluation. While QT prolongation is certainly not the only potential indicator of drug-induced proarrhythmia being investigated, regulatory agencies’ adoption of these guidelines lends a current central focus to this area of cardiac safety. This article provides an integrated overview of the molecular biological underpinnings of QT prolongation, nonclinical assays assessing proarrhythmic liability, and the ICH E14 Thorough QT/QTc (TQT) study. With regard to the TQT study, it discusses study design, experimental methodology, and statistical analysis considerations required for the optimum conduct and interpretation of the study. It also addresses how results from the TQT study influence the degree and extent of ECG monitoring required in later phases of the clinical development program.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d12d70f7c5b056b30a968077f9a17fde21f9e52f" target='_blank'>Assessing a Drug’s Proarrhythmic Liability: An Overview of Computer Simulation Modeling, Nonclinical Assays, and the Thorough QT/QTc Study</a></td>
          <td>
            Lawrence Z. Satin, Todd A. Durham, J. Rick Turner
          </td>
          <td>2011-05-01</td>
          <td>Drug information journal : DIJ / Drug Information Association</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Rare diseases, affecting millions globally, present significant drug development challenges. This is due to the limited patient populations and the unique pathophysiology of these diseases, which can make traditional clinical trial designs unfeasible. Quantitative Systems Pharmacology (QSP) models offer a promising approach to expedite drug development, particularly in rare diseases. QSP models provide a mechanistic representation of the disease and drug response in virtual patients that can complement routinely applied empirical modeling and simulation approaches. QSP models can generate digital twins of actual patients and mechanistically simulate the disease progression of rare diseases, accounting for phenotypic heterogeneity. QSP models can also support drug development in various drug modalities, such as gene therapy. Impactful QSP models case studies are presented here to illustrate their value in supporting various aspects of drug development in rare indications. As these QSP model applications continue to mature, there is a growing possibility that they could be more widely integrated into routine drug development steps. This integration could provide a robust framework for addressing some of the inherent challenges in rare disease drug development.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/501aa60f69949c250c5052e0be685b26e600d873" target='_blank'>Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Models: Potential Tools for Advancing Drug Development for Rare Diseases.</a></td>
          <td>
            Susana Neves-Zaph, C. Kaddi
          </td>
          <td>2024-09-28</td>
          <td>Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Drug‐induced long QT syndrome (diLQTS) is a clinical entity in which administration of a drug produces marked prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG. DiLQTS places a patient at risk of developing Torsades de Pointes (TdP), a malignant polymorphic ventricular tachycardia associated with arrhythmic sudden cardiac death (SCD). In addition to diLQTS, other clinical risk factors for TdP include female gender, bradycardia, electrolyte disturbances, recent conversion to normal (sinus) rhythm, and congenital LQTS.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c851fcc888b7852a8d30b1803815afb313942836" target='_blank'>A new paradigm for predicting risk of Torsades de Pointes during drug development: Commentary on: “Improved prediction of drug‐induced Torsades de Pointes through simulations of dynamics and machine learning algorithms”</a></td>
          <td>
            M. McCauley, D. Darbar
          </td>
          <td>2016-10-01</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The ventricular arrhythmia Torsades de Pointes (TdP) is a common form of drug‐induced cardiotoxicity, but prediction of this arrhythmia remains an unresolved issue in drug development. Current assays to evaluate arrhythmia risk are limited by poor specificity and a lack of mechanistic insight. We addressed this important unresolved issue through a novel computational approach that combined simulations of drug effects on dynamics with statistical analysis and machine‐learning. Drugs that blocked multiple ion channels were simulated in ventricular myocyte models, and metrics computed from the action potential and intracellular (Ca2+) waveform were used to construct classifiers that distinguished between arrhythmogenic and nonarrhythmogenic drugs. We found that: (1) these classifiers provide superior risk prediction; (2) drug‐induced changes to both the action potential and intracellular (Ca2+) influence risk; and (3) cardiac ion channels not typically assessed may significantly affect risk. Our algorithm demonstrates the value of systematic simulations in predicting pharmacological toxicity.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d85ed2dc274e6ff2f8ad78993b6ede2cabdae32e" target='_blank'>Improved Prediction of Drug‐Induced Torsades de Pointes Through Simulations of Dynamics and Machine Learning Algorithms</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Lancaster, E. Sobie
          </td>
          <td>2016-10-01</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics</td>
          <td>118</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e84da3d4806f9e0d2e269001314f3b9b08b4e800" target='_blank'>Leveraging model-informed approaches for drug discovery and development in the cardiovascular space</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Dockendorf, R. Vargo, F. Gheyas, A. Chain, Manash S. Chatterjee, L. Wenning
          </td>
          <td>2018-01-20</td>
          <td>Journal of Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e84da3d4806f9e0d2e269001314f3b9b08b4e800" target='_blank'>Leveraging model-informed approaches for drug discovery and development in the cardiovascular space</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Dockendorf, R. Vargo, F. Gheyas, A. Chain, Manash S. Chatterjee, L. Wenning
          </td>
          <td>2018-01-20</td>
          <td>Journal of Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/864f6cd6ddeaa8375d352ed65563b8124a4dedd1" target='_blank'>The Role of Interaction Model in Simulation of Drug Interactions and QT Prolongation</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Wiśniowska, S. Polak
          </td>
          <td>2016-10-27</td>
          <td>Current Pharmacology Reports</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/864f6cd6ddeaa8375d352ed65563b8124a4dedd1" target='_blank'>The Role of Interaction Model in Simulation of Drug Interactions and QT Prolongation</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Wiśniowska, S. Polak
          </td>
          <td>2016-10-27</td>
          <td>Current Pharmacology Reports</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Early identification of drug‐induced cardiac adverse events is key in drug development. Human‐based computer models are emerging as an effective approach, complementary to in vitro and animal models. Drug‐induced shortening of the electromechanical window has been associated with increased risk of arrhythmias. This study investigates the potential of a cellular surrogate for the electromechanical window (EMw) for prediction of pro‐arrhythmic cardiotoxicity, and its underlying ionic mechanisms, using human‐based computer models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c0d700843c2ef5161bccd6ea59595390cc893189" target='_blank'>Drug‐induced shortening of the electromechanical window is an effective biomarker for in silico prediction of clinical risk of arrhythmias</a></td>
          <td>
            Elisa Passini, C. Trovato, P. Morissette, F. Sannajust, A. Bueno-Orovio, B. Rodríguez
          </td>
          <td>2019-09-04</td>
          <td>British Journal of Pharmacology</td>
          <td>46</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Torsade de Pointes (TdP), a rare but lethal ventricular arrhythmia, is a toxic side effect of many drugs. To assess TdP risk, safety regulatory guidelines require quantification of hERG channel block in vitro and QT interval prolongation in vivo for all new therapeutic compounds. Unfortunately, these have proven to be poor predictors of torsadogenic risk, and are likely to have prevented safe compounds from reaching clinical phases. While this has stimulated numerous efforts to define new paradigms for cardiac safety, none of the recently developed strategies accounts for patient conditions. In particular, despite being a well-established independent risk factor for TdP, female sex is vastly underrepresented in both basic research and clinical studies, and thus current TdP metrics are likely biased toward the male sex. Here, we apply statistical learning to synthetic data, generated by simulating drug effects on cardiac myocyte models capturing male and female electrophysiology, to develop new sex-specific classification frameworks for TdP risk. We show that (1) TdP classifiers require different features in females vs. males; (2) malebased classifiers perform more poorly when applied to female data; (3) female-based classifier performance is largely unaffected by acute effects of hormones (i.e., during various phases of the menstrual cycle). Notably, when predicting TdP risk of intermediate drugs on female simulated data, male-biased predictive models consistently underestimate TdP risk in women. Therefore, we conclude that pipelines for preclinical cardiotoxicity risk assessment should consider sex as a key variable to avoid potentially lifethreatening consequences for the female population.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e77e6325f536635c4b02f62e0edfe8283db3d5d8" target='_blank'>Sex-specific classification of drug-induced Torsade de Pointes susceptibility using cardiac simulations and machine learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Alex Fogli Iseppe, H. Ni, Sicheng Zhu, Xianwei Zhang, R. Coppini, Pei-Chi Yang, U. Srivatsa, Colleen E. Clancy, A. Edwards, S. Morotti, E. Grandi
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-27</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a77abbf2324ef0ac2d841118cd1770ed35daf432" target='_blank'>In Silico Modeling of Changes to Ventricular Myocyte Action Potential Morphology Caused by Pharmacological Agents</a></td>
          <td>
            Kathleen R. McGovern, Amrita X. Sarkar, E. Sobie
          </td>
          <td>2011-02-02</td>
          <td>Biophysical Journal</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>41</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Since the Comprehensive in vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) initiation, many studies have suggested various in silico features based on ionic charges, action potentials (AP), or intracellular calcium (Ca) to assess proarrhythmic risk. These in silico features are computed through electrophysiological simulations using in vitro experimental datasets as input, therefore changing with the quality of in vitro experimental data; however, research to validate the robustness of in silico features for proarrhythmic risk assessment of drugs depending on in vitro datasets has not been conducted. This study aims to verify the availability of in silico features commonly used in assessing the cardiac toxicity of drugs through an ordinal logistic regression model and three in vitro datasets measured under different experimental environments and with different purposes. We performed in silico drug simulations using the Tomek-Ohara Rudy (ToR-ORD) ventricular myocyte model and computed 12 in silico features comprising six AP features, four Ca features, and two ion charge features, which reflected the effect and characteristics of each in vitro data for CiPA 28 drugs. We then compared the classific performances of ordinal logistic regressions according to these 12 in silico features and used in vitro datasets to validate which in silico feature is the best for assessing the proarrhythmic risk of drugs at high, intermediate, and low levels. All 12 in silico features helped determine high-risky torsadogenic drugs, regardless of the in vitro datasets used in the in silico simulation as input. In the three types of in silico features, AP features were the most reliable for determining the three Torsade de Pointes (TdP) risk standards. Among AP features, AP duration at 50% repolarization (APD50) was the best when individually using in silico features per in vitro dataset. In contrast, the AP repolarization velocity (dVm/dtMax_repol) was the best when merging all in silico features computed through three in vitro datasets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/481a951c3b12209ee504c5c079b45541f156d7fd" target='_blank'>Validation of in silico biomarkers for drug screening through ordinal logistic regression</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Jeong, Rakha Zharfarizqi Danadibrata, Aroli Marcellinus, K. Lim
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-06</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Torsades de pointes (TdP) is a type of ventricular arrhythmia that can lead to sudden cardiac death. Drug-induced TdP has been an important concern for researchers and international regulatory boards. The Comprehensive in vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) initiative was proposed that integrates in vitro testing and computational models of cardiac ion channels and human cardiomyocyte cells to evaluate the proarrhythmic risk of drugs. The TdP risk classification performance using only a single TdP metric may require some improvements because of information limitations and the instability of generalizing results. This study evaluates the performance of TdP metrics from the in silico simulations of the Tomek–O'Hara Rudy (ToR–ORd) ventricular cell model for classifying the TdP risk of drugs. We utilized these metrics as an input to an artificial neural network (ANN)-based classifier. The ANN model was optimized through hyperparameter tuning using the grid search (GS) method to find the optimal model. The study outcomes show an area under the curve (AUC) value of 0.979 for the high-risk category, 0.791 for the intermediate-risk category, and 0.937 for the low-risk category. Therefore, this study successfully demonstrates the capability of the ToR–ORd ventricular cell model in classifying the TdP risk into three risk categories, providing new insights into TdP risk prediction methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e6c4732b1e4c3536728113740f7c7f0724feb545" target='_blank'>Evaluation of cardiac pro-arrhythmic risks using the artificial neural network with ToR–ORd in silico model output</a></td>
          <td>
            Nurul Qashri Mahardika T, Ali Ikhsanul Qauli, Aroli Marcellinus, Ki Moo Lim
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-04</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>6</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The Comprehensive in vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) initiative is developing and validating a mechanistic‐based assessment of the proarrhythmic risk of drugs. CiPA proposes to assess a drug's effect on multiple ion channels and integrate the effects in a computer model of the human cardiomyocyte to predict proarrhythmic risk. Unanticipated or missed effects will be assessed with human stem cell‐derived cardiomyocytes and electrocardiogram (ECG) analysis in early phase I clinical trials. This article provides an overview of CiPA and the rationale and design of the CiPA phase I ECG validation clinical trial, which involves assessing an additional ECG biomarker (J‐Tpeak) for QT prolonging drugs. If successful, CiPA will 1) create a pathway for drugs with hERG block / QT prolongation to advance without intensive ECG monitoring in phase III trials if they have low proarrhythmic risk; and 2) enable updating drug labels to be more informative about proarrhythmic risk, not just QT prolongation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5b56d01085d0a73afc6b6ae2b9b35050e22994ec" target='_blank'>Mechanistic Model‐Informed Proarrhythmic Risk Assessment of Drugs: Review of the “CiPA” Initiative and Design of a Prospective Clinical Validation Study</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Vicente, R. Zusterzeel, L. Johannesen, J. Mason, P. Sager, Vikram Patel, M. Matta, Zhihua Li, Jiang Liu, C. Garnett, N. Stockbridge, I. Zineh, D. Strauss
          </td>
          <td>2017-11-16</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics</td>
          <td>99</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Supplemental Digital Content is available in the text. Rationale: Drug-induced proarrhythmia is so tightly associated with prolongation of the QT interval that QT prolongation is an accepted surrogate marker for arrhythmia. But QT interval is too sensitive a marker and not selective, resulting in many useful drugs eliminated in drug discovery. Objective: To predict the impact of a drug from the drug chemistry on the cardiac rhythm. Methods and Results: In a new linkage, we connected atomistic scale information to protein, cell, and tissue scales by predicting drug-binding affinities and rates from simulation of ion channel and drug structure interactions and then used these values to model drug effects on the hERG channel. Model components were integrated into predictive models at the cell and tissue scales to expose fundamental arrhythmia vulnerability mechanisms and complex interactions underlying emergent behaviors. Human clinical data were used for model framework validation and showed excellent agreement, demonstrating feasibility of a new approach for cardiotoxicity prediction. Conclusions: We present a multiscale model framework to predict electrotoxicity in the heart from the atom to the rhythm. Novel mechanistic insights emerged at all scales of the system, from the specific nature of proarrhythmic drug interaction with the hERG channel, to the fundamental cellular and tissue-level arrhythmia mechanisms. Applications of machine learning indicate necessary and sufficient parameters that predict arrhythmia vulnerability. We expect that the model framework may be expanded to make an impact in drug discovery, drug safety screening for a variety of compounds and targets, and in a variety of regulatory processes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/91ebb075a8e50fe0028cdd871b8b843e762be2ae" target='_blank'>A Computational Pipeline to Predict Cardiotoxicity</a></td>
          <td>
            Pei-Chi Yang, Kevin R. DeMarco, Parya Aghasafari, Mao-Tsuen Jeng, John R. D. Dawson, Slava Bekker, S. Noskov, V. Yarov-Yarovoy, I. Vorobyov, C. Clancy
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-24</td>
          <td>PubMed, MAG</td>
          <td>43</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Human heart electrophysiology is complex biological phenomenon, which is indirectly assessed by the measured ECG signal. ECG trace is further analyzed to derive interpretable surrogates including QT interval, QRS complex, PR interval, and T wave morphology. QT interval and its modification are the most commonly used surrogates of the drug triggered arrhythmia, but it is known that the QT interval itself is determined by other nondrug related parameters, physiological and pathological. In the current study, we used the computational intelligence algorithms to analyze correlations between various simulated physiological parameters and QT interval. Terfenadine given concomitantly with 8 enzymatic inhibitors was used as an example. The equation developed with the use of genetic programming technique leads to general reasoning about the changes in the prolonged QT. For small changes of the QT interval, the drug-related IKr and ICa currents inhibition potentials have major impact. The physiological parameters such as body surface area, potassium, sodium, and calcium ions concentrations are negligible. The influence of the physiological variables increases gradually with the more pronounced changes in QT. As the significant QT prolongation is associated with the drugs triggered arrhythmia risk, analysis of the role of physiological parameters influencing ECG seems to be advisable.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/95dc87e83d736258684b279de3801a076c044257" target='_blank'>Quantitative Assessment of the Physiological Parameters Influencing QT Interval Response to Medication: Application of Computational Intelligence Tools</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Polak, B. Wiśniowska, A. Mendyk, Adam Pacławski, J. Szlęk
          </td>
          <td>2018-01-04</td>
          <td>Computational and Mathematical Methods in Medicine</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The International Council on Harmonization (ICH) S7B and E14 regulatory guidelines are sensitive but not specific for predicting which drugs are pro‐arrhythmic. In response, the Comprehensive In Vitro Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA) was proposed that integrates multi‐ion channel pharmacology data in vitro into a human cardiomyocyte model in silico for proarrhythmia risk assessment. Previously, we reported the model optimization and proarrhythmia metric selection based on CiPA training drugs. In this study, we report the application of the prespecified model and metric to independent CiPA validation drugs. Over two validation datasets, the CiPA model performance meets all pre‐specified measures for ranking and classifying validation drugs, and outperforms alternatives, despite some in vitro data differences between the two datasets due to different experimental conditions and quality control procedures. This suggests that the current CiPA model/metric may be fit for regulatory use, and standardization of experimental protocols and quality control criteria could increase the model prediction accuracy even further.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8644b79769bfe4ddf5b674826afe40fbf4ab1882" target='_blank'>Assessment of an In Silico Mechanistic Model for Proarrhythmia Risk Prediction Under the CiPA Initiative</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhihua Li, Bradley J. Ridder, Xiaomei Han, Wendy W Wu, Jiansong Sheng, Phu N. Tran, Min Wu, Aaron L Randolph, Ross Johnstone, Gary R. Mirams, Y. Kuryshev, James W. Kramer, Caiyun Wu, W. Crumb, D. Strauss
          </td>
          <td>2018-08-27</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics</td>
          <td>131</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>