---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-20 06:08:32 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>A hidden oncogenic positive feedback loop caused by crosstalk between Wnt and ERK Pathways</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Cell responses are actuated by tightly controlled signal transduction pathways. Although the concept of an integrated signaling network replete with interpathway cross-talk and feedback regulation is broadly appreciated, kinetic data of the type needed to characterize such interactions in conjunction with mathematical models are lacking. In mammalian cells, the Ras/ERK pathway controls cell proliferation and other responses stimulated by growth factors, and several cross-talk and feedback mechanisms affecting its activation have been identified. In this work, we take a systematic approach to parse the magnitudes of multiple regulatory mechanisms that attenuate ERK activation through canonical (Ras-dependent) and non-canonical (PI3K-dependent) pathways. In addition to regulation of receptor and ligand levels, we consider three layers of ERK-dependent feedback: desensitization of Ras activation, negative regulation of MEK kinase (e.g. Raf) activities, and up-regulation of dual-specificity ERK phosphatases. Our results establish the second of these as the dominant mode of ERK self-regulation in mouse fibroblasts. We further demonstrate that kinetic models of signaling networks, trained on a sufficient diversity of quantitative data, can be reasonably comprehensive, accurate, and predictive in the dynamical sense.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/405be6d692d4836d3b3efde9333fdf1789ff05c7" target='_blank'>Systematic Quantification of Negative Feedback Mechanisms in the Extracellular Signal-regulated Kinase (ERK) Signaling Network*</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Cirit, Chun-Chao Wang, J. Haugh
          </td>
          <td>2010-09-16</td>
          <td>The Journal of Biological Chemistry</td>
          <td>91</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Epistasis among driver mutations is pervasive and explains relevant features of cancer, such as differential therapy response and convergence towards well-characterized molecular subtypes. Furthermore, a growing body of evidence suggests that tumor development could be hampered by the accumulation of slightly deleterious passenger mutations. In this work, we combined empirical epistasis networks, computer simulations, and mathematical models to explore how synergistic interactions among driver mutations affect cancer progression under the burden of slightly deleterious passengers. We found that epistasis plays a crucial role in tumor development by promoting the transformation of precancerous clones into rapidly growing tumors through a process that is analogous to evolutionary rescue. The triggering of epistasis-driven rescue is strongly dependent on the intensity of epistasis and could be a key rate-limiting step in many tumors, contributing to their unpredictability. As a result, central genes in cancer epistasis networks appear as key intervention targets for cancer therapy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c91226be0555313595065598908b1bdc235666f1" target='_blank'>Synergistic epistasis among cancer drivers can rescue early tumors from the accumulation of deleterious passengers</a></td>
          <td>
            Carla Alejandre, Jorge Calle-Espinosa, Jaime Iranzo
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-01</td>
          <td>PLOS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>6</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cell responses are actuated by tightly controlled signal transduction pathways. Although the concept of an integrated signaling network replete with interpathway cross-talk and feedback regulation is broadly appreciated, kinetic data of the type needed to characterize such interactions in conjunction with mathematical models are lacking. In mammalian cells, the Ras/ERK pathway controls cell proliferation and other responses stimulated by growth factors, and several cross-talk and feedback mechanisms affecting its activation have been identified. In this work, we take a systematic approach to parse the magnitudes of multiple regulatory mechanisms that attenuate ERK activation through canonical (Ras-dependent) and non-canonical (PI3K-dependent) pathways. In addition to regulation of receptor and ligand levels, we consider three layers of ERK-dependent feedback: desensitization of Ras activation, negative regulation of MEK kinase (e.g. Raf) activities, and up-regulation of dual-specificity ERK phosphatases. Our results establish the second of these as the dominant mode of ERK self-regulation in mouse fibroblasts. We further demonstrate that kinetic models of signaling networks, trained on a sufficient diversity of quantitative data, can be reasonably comprehensive, accurate, and predictive in the dynamical sense.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/405be6d692d4836d3b3efde9333fdf1789ff05c7" target='_blank'>Systematic Quantification of Negative Feedback Mechanisms in the Extracellular Signal-regulated Kinase (ERK) Signaling Network*</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Cirit, Chun-Chao Wang, J. Haugh
          </td>
          <td>2010-09-16</td>
          <td>The Journal of Biological Chemistry</td>
          <td>91</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="TGF-β, an important cytokine that plays a key role in many diseases regulates a wide array of cellular and physiologic processes via several TGF-β-driven signaling cascades, including the SMAD and non-SMAD-driven pathways. However, the detailed mechanisms by which TGF-β induces such diverse responses remain poorly understood. In particular, compared to the SMAD-dependent pathway, SMAD-independent pathways such as the ERK/MAPK pathway, which is critical in cancer progression, are less characterized. Here, we develop an integrated mechanistic model of the TGF-β-triggered ERK activation pathway and its crosstalk with the SMAD pathway, an analysis of which demonstrates how SMAD dynamics can be significantly modulated and regulated by the ERK pathway. In particular, SMAD-mediated transcription can be altered and delayed due to expedited phosphorylation of the linker of SMAD by TGF-β-activated ERK; and enhanced ERK activity, but attenuated SMAD activity, can be achieved simultaneously by fast turnover of TGF-β receptors via lipid-rafts. Also, in silico mutations of the TGF-β pathways reveal that the dynamic characteristics of both SMAD and ERK signaling may change significantly during cancer development. Specifically, normal cells may exhibit enhanced and sustained SMAD signaling with transient ERK activation, whereas cancerous cells may produce elevated and prolonged ERK signaling with enervated SMAD activation. These distinctive differences between normal and cancerous signaling behavior provide clues concerning, and potential explanations for, the seemingly contradictory roles played by TGF-β during cancer progression. We demonstrate how crosstalk among various branch pathways of TGF-β can influence overall cellular behavior. Based on model analysis, we hypothesize that aberrant molecular alterations drive changes in the intensity and duration of SMAD and ERK signaling during cancer progression and ultimately lead to an imbalance between the SMAD and ERK pathways in favor of tumor promotion. Thus, to treat cancer patients with a genetic signature of oncogenic Ras effectively may require at least a combination therapy to restore both the expression of TGF-β receptors and the GTPase activity of Ras.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0e15eee20cb91183ca7ba0fc4da9fd5299f68c7f" target='_blank'>Computational Modeling and Analysis of the TGF-β-induced ERK and SMAD Pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            Seung-Wook Chung, Carlton R. Cooper, M. Farach‐Carson, B. Ogunnaike
          </td>
          <td>2024-11-09</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Oncogenic mutations in Ras GTPases result in overactivation of the Erk-MAPK pathway, which regulate cellular proliferation, and have been shown to have strong clinical correlations with a variety of pancreatic, colonic, and other cancers. To date, a viable inhibitor of Ras has remained elusive and most Ras mutation cancers are treated with downstream inhibitors to reduce the activity of ERK. However, these therapies have been shown to provide minor anticancer effects in some patients. To examine other viable therapeutic alternatives, potential drug actions that activate "off" mechanisms of this pathway are examined in a computational model. The described model recapitulates empirical data of the Erk-MAPK pathway under EGF-stimulation and is modified to include the effects of a constitutively active Ras. Serving as an experimental predictor of the potential drug actions against the effects of constant Ras activation, activators of protein phosphatase 2 (PP2A) and Raf1 phosphatase catalytic activity are shown to be able to restore Erk responses in such cancers to dynamic responses that are seen in wild-type EGF-stimulated cells.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/af69827096a6688cdc58a1021e1e1f93a8589ba3" target='_blank'>Ras mutations in the Erk-MAPK pathway and Cancer: Alternate therapies examined in an ODE-based computational model</a></td>
          <td>
            Jiarui Li
          </td>
          <td>2020-09-11</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the 1st International Symposium on Artificial Intelligence in Medical Sciences</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="To investigate the unregulated Ras activation associated with cancer, we developed and validated a mathematical model of Ras signaling. The model-based predictions and associated experiments help explain why only one of two classes of activating Ras point mutations with in vitro transformation potential is commonly found in cancers. Model-based analysis of these mutants uncovered a systems-level process that contributes to total Ras activation in cells. This predicted behavior was supported by experimental observations. We also used the model to identify a strategy in which a drug could cause stronger inhibition on the cancerous Ras network than on the wild-type network. This system-level analysis of the oncogenic Ras network provides new insights and potential therapeutic strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7537afb7c22d6da2070fdb14b037b930aa4022f3" target='_blank'>Network Analysis of Oncogenic Ras Activation in Cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Stites, P. Trampont, Zhong Ma, K. Ravichandran
          </td>
          <td>2007-10-19</td>
          <td>Science</td>
          <td>118</td>
          <td>78</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extra-cellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) signal network plays an important role in regulating the fundamental cellular functions such as cell proliferation, survival, differentiation and motility. Development and analysis of mathematical model can help us acquire a deep understanding of the complex behavior of ERK signal transduction network. This paper presents a computational model that offers an integrated quantitative and dynamic simulation of ERK signal transduction network, activated by epidermal growth factor (EGF). The mathematic model contains the activation kinetics of the pathway, a multitude of feedback loops and connection of scaffold proteins. The model provides insight into signal-response relationships between the binding of EGF to its receptor at the cell surface and activation of downstream proteins in the signaling cascade. The different influence of positive and negative feedback loops of the ERK signal transduction pathway were mainly analyzed, indicating that feedback loops were the main impacting factor to the oscillation of ERK signal transduction pathway. The predictions of this oscillation of ERK activation agree well with the literature. It can lead to signal waves of the downstream substrates and induce corresponding biological behaviors.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a7bf832c4d17a797f80bffbcb87cce1c1078a91f" target='_blank'>Dynamic Analysis of Feedback Loops in Extra-Cellular Signal Regulated Kinase Signal Network</a></td>
          <td>
            Yong Han, Yan Li, Yonghua Wang, H. Fang, Shuwei Zhang
          </td>
          <td>2009-03-31</td>
          <td>2009 WRI World Congress on Computer Science and Information Engineering</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>34</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Precision medicine has changed thinking in cancer therapy, highlighting a better understanding of the individual clinical interventions. But what role do the drivers and pathways identified from pan-cancer genome analysis play in the tumor? In this letter, we will highlight the importance of in silico modeling in precision medicine. In the current era of big data, tumor engines and pathways derived from pan-cancer analysis should be integrated into in silico models to understand the mutational tumor status and individual molecular pathway mechanism at a deeper level. This allows to pre-evaluate the potential therapy response and develop optimal patient-tailored treatment strategies which pave the way to support precision medicine in the clinic of the future.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d3d85cd48654368783018b1d69f1208b8adc1339" target='_blank'>In silico signaling modeling to understand cancer pathways and treatment responses</a></td>
          <td>
            Meik Kunz, J. Jeromin, M. Fuchs, J. Christoph, G. Veronesi, M. Flentje, Sarah Nietzer, Gudrun Dandekar, T. Dandekar
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-21</td>
          <td>Briefings in bioinformatics</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>72</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>