---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-02-03 06:09:01 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Building a modular and multi-cellular virtual twin of the synovial joint in Rheumatoid Arthritis</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/97a72045fbdc0b6b27e0e333a6351ea1f4309df9" target='_blank'>From desk to bed: Computational simulations provide indication for rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials</a></td>
          <td>
            Jennifer E. Dent, C. Nardini
          </td>
          <td>2013-01-22</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a progressive, inflammatory autoimmune disease of unknown aetiology. The complex mechanism of aetiopathogenesis, progress and chronicity of the disease involves genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying disease phenotypes, one has to place implicated factors in their functional context. However, integration and organization of such data in a systematic manner remains a challenging task. Molecular maps are widely used in biology to provide a useful and intuitive way of depicting a variety of biological processes and disease mechanisms. Recent large-scale collaborative efforts such as the Disease Maps Project demonstrate the utility of such maps as versatile tools to organize and formalize disease-specific knowledge in a comprehensive way, both human and machine-readable. We present a systematic effort to construct a fully annotated, expert validated, state-of-the-art knowledge base for RA in the form of a molecular map. The RA map illustrates molecular and signalling pathways implicated in the disease. Signal transduction is depicted from receptors to the nucleus using the Systems Biology Graphical Notation (SBGN) standard representation. High-quality manual curation, use of only human-specific studies and focus on small-scale experiments aim to limit false positives in the map. The state-of-the-art molecular map for RA, using information from 353 peer-reviewed scientific publications, comprises 506 species, 446 reactions and 8 phenotypes. The species in the map are classified to 303 proteins, 61 complexes, 106 genes, 106 RNA entities, 2 ions and 7 simple molecules. The RA map is available online at ramap.elixir-luxembourg.org as an open-access knowledge base allowing for easy navigation and search of molecular pathways implicated in the disease. Furthermore, the RA map can serve as a template for omics data visualization.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6389768cc7cd6cd31795bb3e5dcf29a632897f3a" target='_blank'>RA-map: building a state-of-the-art interactive knowledge base for rheumatoid arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Vidisha Singh, G. Kalliolias, M. Ostaszewski, Maëva Veyssiere, Eleftherios Pilalis, P. Gawron, A. Mazein, E. Bonnet, E. Petit-Teixeira, A. Niarakis
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-01</td>
          <td>Database: The Journal of Biological Databases and Curation</td>
          <td>27</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="SUMMARY In this work we present a systematic effort to summarize current biological pathway knowledge concerning Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). We are constructing a detailed molecular map based on exhaustive literature scanning, strict curation criteria, re-evaluation of previously published attempts and most importantly experts’ advice. The RA map will be web-published in the coming months in the form of an interactive map, using the MINERVA platform, allowing for easy access, navigation and search of all molecular pathways implicated in RA, serving thus, as an on line knowledgebase for the disease. Moreover the map could be used as a template for Omics data visualization offering a first insight about the pathways affected in different experimental datasets. The second goal of the project is a dynamical study focused on synovial fibroblasts’ behavior under different initial conditions specific to RA, as recent studies have shown that synovial fibroblasts play a crucial role in driving the persistent, destructive characteristics of the disease. Leaning on the RA knowledgebase and using the web platform Cell Collective, we are currently building a Boolean large scale dynamical model for the study of RA fibroblasts’ activation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6d30c5bd12630f8fa0e47528cd5fed2b2bdc718b" target='_blank'>Computational Systems Biology Approach for the Study of Rheumatoid Arthritis: From a Molecular Map to a Dynamical Model</a></td>
          <td>
            Vidisha Singh, M. Ostaszewski, G. Kalliolias, G. Chiocchia, R. Olaso, E. Petit-Teixeira, T. Helikar, A. Niarakis
          </td>
          <td>2017-12-06</td>
          <td>Genomics and computational biology</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a multifactorial, complex autoimmune disease that involves various genetic, environmental and epigenetic factors. Systems biology approaches provide the means to study complex diseases through the integration of different layers of biological information. Combining multiple data types can help compensate for missing or conflicting information and limit the possibility of false positives. In this work, we aim to unravel mechanisms governing the regulation of key transcription factors in RA and derive patient-specific models to gain more insights into the disease heterogeneity and the response to treatment. We first make use of publicly available transcriptomic datasets (peripheral blood) relative to RA and machine learning to create an RA specific transcription factor (TF) co-regulatory network. The TF cooperativity network is subsequently enriched in signalling cascades and upstream regulators using a state-of-the-art, RA-specific molecular map. The integrative network is then used as a template to analyze patients’ data regarding their response to anti-TNF treatment and identify master regulators and upstream cascades affected by the treatment. We use the Boolean formalism to simulate in silico subparts of the integrated network and identify combinations and conditions that can switch on or off the identified TFs, mimicking the effects of single and combined perturbations.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7b84d4c6bcdbe1d35b987f4054edb73c2f133897" target='_blank'>Inference of an Integrative, Executable Network for Rheumatoid Arthritis Combining Data-Driven Machine Learning Approaches and a State-of-the-Art Mechanistic Disease Map</a></td>
          <td>
            Quentin Miagoux, Vidisha Singh, Dereck de Mézquita, V. Chaudru, M. Elati, E. Petit-Teixeira, A. Niarakis
          </td>
          <td>2021-01-30</td>
          <td>Journal of Personalized Medicine</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cd6a91bfebe4061e3728bc26337c07aac0acf80f" target='_blank'>Implying Analytic Measures for Unravelling Rheumatoid Arthritis Significant Proteins Through Drug–Target Interaction</a></td>
          <td>
            Sachidanand Singh, J. Jannet Vennila, V. Snijesh, G. George, C. Sunny
          </td>
          <td>2015-02-06</td>
          <td>Interdisciplinary Sciences: Computational Life Sciences</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e33d24892002e03162f282fefaf48c8a1fcf3d9f" target='_blank'>Software JimenaE allows efficient dynamic simulations of Boolean networks, centrality and system state analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Martin Kaltdorf, Tim Breitenbach, Stefan Karl, M. Fuchs, D. Kessie, E. Psota, Martina Prelog, E. Sarukhanyan, R. Ebert, Franz Jakob, Gudrun Dandekar, M. Naseem, Chunguang Liang, T. Dandekar
          </td>
          <td>2023-02-01</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>69</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chronic inflammatory diseases (CIDs), including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are thought to emerge from an impaired complex network of inter- and intracellular biochemical interactions among several proteins and small chemical compounds under strong influence of genetic and environmental factors. CIDs are characterised by shared and disease-specific processes, which is reflected by partially overlapping genetic risk maps and pathogenic cells (e.g., T cells). Their pathogenesis involves a plethora of intracellular pathways. The translation of the research findings on CIDs molecular mechanisms into effective treatments is challenging and may explain the low remission rates despite modern targeted therapies. Modelling CID-related causal interactions as networks allows us to tackle the complexity at a systems level and improve our understanding of the interplay of key pathways. Here we report the construction, description, and initial applications of the SYSCID map (https://syscid.elixir-luxembourg.org/), a mechanistic causal interaction network covering the molecular crosstalk between IBD, RA and SLE. We demonstrate that the map serves as an interactive, graphical review of IBD, RA and SLE molecular mechanisms, and helps to understand the complexity of omics data. Examples of such application are illustrated using transcriptome data from time-series gene expression profiles following anti-TNF treatment and data from genome-wide associations studies that enable us to suggest potential effects to altered pathways and propose possible mechanistic biomarkers of treatment response.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/91e070e7e1b299f3a1a5565b1dc2fe5df95c949d" target='_blank'>The SYSCID map: a graphical and computational resource of molecular mechanisms across rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Acencio, M. Ostaszewski, A. Mazein, Philip Rosenstiel, K. Aden, Neha Mishra, Vibeke Andersen, P. Sidiropoulos, A. Banos, Anastasia Filia, Souad Rahmouni, A. Finckh, Wei Gu, Reinhard Schneider, Venkata P. Satagopam
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Immunology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>59</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c0201dd3bf30c8b32fbda6249705fb2293a16fb0" target='_blank'>Computational approaches in rheumatic diseases – Deciphering complex spatio-temporal cell interactions</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Hegarty, N. Neto, P. Cahill, A. Floudas
          </td>
          <td>2023-08-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory autoimmune disease that affects 23 million people worldwide. It is a clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by the attack of inflammatory chemicals on the synovial tissue that lines joints. It is advantageous to develop effective, targeted treatments and identify specific diagnostic biomarkers for RA before extensive joint degradation, bone erosion, and cartilage destruction. Current modes of RA treatments have alleviated and notably halted the progression of RA. Despite this, not many patients reach low disease activity status after treatment, and a significant number of patients fail to respond to medication due to drug non-specificity. While the reasons for these rates remain unknown, the cellular and molecular signatures present in the synovial tissue for RA patients likely play a role in the varied treatment response. Thus, a drug that particularly targets specific genes and networks may have a significant effect in halting the progression of RA. This study evaluates and proposes potential drug targets through in silico mathematical modeling of various pathways of interest in RA. To understand how drugs interact with genes, we built a mathematical model with 30 two-gene and three-gene network interactions and analyzed the effect of 92 different perturbations to rate constants. We determined that inhibition of the LCK-CD4, VAV1-CD4, and MLT-ROR pathways could potentially serve as drug targets. We also found that increased activity of the DEC2-IL1β and the NF-kB-interleukin pathway and the decreased activity of the TNF-α-REV-ERB pathway could serve as diagnostic biomarkers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5ed8bc30a87977c47c1d9eee552d50185c806f93" target='_blank'>A Computational Modeling Framework to Analyze Synovial-Tissue Based Drug Targets and Diagnostic Biomarkers in Rheumatoid Arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Latawa, B. Chrisman
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-10</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Background Computational biology contributes to a variety of areas related to life sciences and, due to the growing impact of translational medicine - the scientific approach to medicine in tight relation with basic science -, it is becoming an important player in clinical-related areas. In this study, we use computation methods in order to improve our understanding of the complex interactions that occur between molecules related to Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). Methodology Due to the complexity of the disease and the numerous molecular players involved, we devised a method to construct a systemic network of interactions of the processes ongoing in patients affected by RA. The network is based on high-throughput data, refined semi-automatically with carefully curated literature-based information. This global network has then been topologically analysed, as a whole and tissue-specifically, in order to translate the experimental molecular connections into topological motifs meaningful in the identification of tissue-specific markers and targets in the diagnosis, and possibly in the therapy, of RA. Significance We find that some nodes in the network that prove to be topologically important, in particular AKT2, IL6, MAPK1 and TP53, are also known to be associated with drugs used for the treatment of RA. Importantly, based on topological consideration, we are also able to suggest CRKL as a novel potentially relevant molecule for the diagnosis or treatment of RA. This type of finding proves the potential of in silico analyses able to produce highly refined hypotheses, based on vast experimental data, to be tested further and more efficiently. As research on RA is ongoing, the present map is in fieri, despite being -at the moment- a reflection of the state of the art. For this reason we make the network freely available in the standardised and easily exportable .xml CellDesigner format at ‘www.picb.ac.cn/ClinicalGenomicNTW/temp.html’ and ‘www.celldesigner.org’.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6e173541e55f14ddcea7f3111ad2342652608cfc" target='_blank'>A Comprehensive Molecular Interaction Map for Rheumatoid Arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Gang Wu, Lisha Zhu, Jennifer E. Dent, C. Nardini
          </td>
          <td>2010-04-16</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>62</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Macrophages play an essential role in rheumatoid arthritis. Depending on their phenotype (M1 or M2), they can play a role in the initiation or resolution of inflammation. The M1/M2 ratio in rheumatoid arthritis is higher than in healthy controls. Despite this, no treatment targeting specifically macrophages is currently used in clinics. Thus, devising strategies to selectively deplete proinflammatory macrophages and promote anti-inflammatory macrophages could be a promising therapeutic approach. State-of-the-art molecular interaction maps of M1 and M2 macrophages in rheumatoid arthritis are available and represent a dense source of knowledge; however, these maps remain limited by their static nature. Discrete dynamic modelling can be employed to study the emergent behaviours of these systems. Nevertheless, handling such large-scale models is challenging. Due to their massive size, it is computationally demanding to identify biologically relevant states in a cell- and disease-specific context. In this work, we developed an efficient computational framework that converts molecular interaction maps into Boolean models using the CaSQ tool. Next, we used a newly developed version of the BMA tool deployed to a high-performance computing cluster to identify the models’ steady states. The identified attractors are then validated using gene expression data sets and prior knowledge. We successfully applied our framework to generate and calibrate the M1 and M2 macrophage Boolean models for rheumatoid arthritis. Using KO simulations, we identified NFkB, JAK1/JAK2, and ERK1/Notch1 as potential targets that could selectively suppress proinflammatory macrophages and GSK3B as a promising target that could promote anti-inflammatory macrophages in rheumatoid arthritis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/059d3be3f16a654e8bcdbac57b9329b6e4454926" target='_blank'>Large-scale computational modelling of the M1 and M2 synovial macrophages in rheumatoid arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Naouel Zerrouk, Rachel Alcraft, Benjamin A. Hall, Franck Augé, A. Niarakis
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-15</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>16</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Background The identification of drug repositioning targets through computational methods has the potential to provide a fast, inexpensive alternative to traditional drug discovery process. Diseases where complicated pathophysiology evolves over time are excellent targets for such methods. One such disease is Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease, where the drug survival at 5-years is less than 50% for patients treated with disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Methods and Findings We have developed a network-based approach for drug repositioning that takes into account the human interactome network, proximity measures between drug targets and disease-associated genes, potential side-effects, genome-wide gene expression and disease modules that emerge through pertinent analysis. We found that all DMARDs, except for hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), were found to be significantly proximal to RA-related genes. Application of the method on anti-diabetic agents, statins and H2 receptor blockers identified anti-diabetic agents – gliclazide, sitagliptin and metformin – that have similar network signatures with the DMARDs. Subsequent in-vitro experiments on mouse fibroblast NIH-3T3 cells validated the findings and the down regulation of six key RA-related inflammatory genes. Our analysis further argues that the combination of HCQ and/or sulfasalazine with methotrexate (MTX) is predicted to have an additive synergistic effect in treatment based on network complementarity. Similarly, leflunomide and tofacitinib were found to be suitable alternatives upon chemoresistance to MTX-based double/triple therapy, given the complementary network signatures and overlapping critical target hubs. Conclusions Our results corroborate that computational methods that are based on network proximity, among other contextual information can help narrow down the drug candidates for drug repositioning, as well as support decisions for combinatorial drug treatment that is tailored to patient’s needs. Author summary The network-based proximity between drug targets and disease genes can provide novel insights on the repercussion, interplay, and reposition of drugs in the context of disease. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) located significantly close to rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-associated genes and RA-relevant pathways. Three anti-diabetic agents were identified to have an anti-inflammatory effect like DMARDs. We built RA disease module encompassing the emerging small-molecule targets and functional neighbors, which better explained the RA pathophysiology. By proximity and network robustness, tofacitinib and tocilizumab were the most potent for RA disease module as a single agent, and this is consistent with clinical observation. Side effects of clinical importance are predictable by measuring network-based proximity between drug targets and side effect protein. Network-based drug-disease proximity offers a novel and clinically actionable information about drugs and opens the new possibility to drug combination and reposition.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/84675ad8d7a1d8df0701fb5d44cb88b62850c8f0" target='_blank'>A network-based model for drug repurposing in Rheumatoid Arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Ki-Jo Kim, N. Rai, Minseung Kim, I. Tagkopoulos
          </td>
          <td>2018-05-31</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="1 Cancer and Inflammation Program, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America, 2 Sackler Institute of Molecular Medicine, Department of Human Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel, 3 Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, United States of America">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1ec863eaf4a60b8527d8c5d23a65790c33d29e7b" target='_blank'>Computing Biology</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Nussinov, J. Papin
          </td>
          <td>2016-07-01</td>
          <td>PLoS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>122</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b06d234407efd97d798904ba97ebb9a73b5fb31e" target='_blank'>Methodologies for the modeling and simulation of biochemical networks, illustrated for signal transduction pathways: A primer</a></td>
          <td>
            Nesma ElKalaawy, A. Wassal
          </td>
          <td>2015-03-01</td>
          <td>Bio Systems</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Because of the numerous entities interacting, the complexity of the networks that regulate cell fate makes it impossible to analyze and understand them using the human brain alone. Computational modeling is a powerful method to unravel complex systems. We recently described the development of a user-friendly computational tool, Analysis of Networks with Interactive MOdeling (ANIMO). ANIMO is a powerful tool to formalize knowledge on molecular interactions. This formalization entails giving a precise mathematical (formal) description of molecular states and of interactions between molecules. Such a model can be simulated, thereby in silico mimicking the processes that take place in the cell. In sharp contrast to classical graphical representations of molecular interaction networks, formal models allow in silico experiments and functional analysis of the dynamic behavior of the network. In addition, ANIMO was developed specifically for use by biologists who have little or no prior modeling experience. In this chapter, we guide the reader through the ANIMO workflow using osteoarthritis (OA) as a case study. WNT, IL-1β, and BMP signaling and cross talk are used as a concrete and illustrative model.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bd86bc187ebda6d5b97876260b9a16a1db87185d" target='_blank'>Computational Modeling of Complex Protein Activity Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Schivo, J. Leijten, M. Karperien, J. Post
          </td>
          <td>2017-11-29</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disorder that has a significant impact on quality of life and work capacity. Treatment of RA aims to control inflammation and alleviate pain; however, achieving remission with minimal toxicity is frequently not possible with the current suite of drugs. This review aims to summarise current treatment practices and highlight the urgent need for alternative pharmacogenomic approaches for novel drug discovery. These approaches can elucidate new relationships between drugs, genes, and diseases to identify additional effective and safe therapeutic options. This review discusses how computational approaches such as connectivity mapping offer the ability to repurpose FDA-approved drugs beyond their original treatment indication. This review also explores the concept of drug sensitisation to predict co-prescribed drugs with synergistic effects that produce enhanced anti-disease efficacy by involving multiple disease pathways. Challenges of this computational approach are discussed, including the availability of suitable high-quality datasets for comprehensive analysis and other data curation issues. The potential benefits include accelerated identification of novel drug combinations and the ability to trial and implement established treatments in a new index disease. This review underlines the huge opportunity to incorporate disease-related data and drug-related data to develop methods and algorithms that have strong potential to determine novel and effective treatment regimens.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d96b1b3b9b29a2c80a1b8a97c666cb3b40b8be07" target='_blank'>An AI Approach to Identifying Novel Therapeutics for Rheumatoid Arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Jency R. Rajan, Stephen McDonald, A. Bjourson, Shu-Dong Zhang, David S. Gibson
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-23</td>
          <td>Journal of Personalized Medicine</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="  
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) (OMIM ID: 180300) is an inflammatory autoimmune disease caused by immune reaction against the proliferating synovial fibroblasts. Nonsuppurative proliferation of synoviocytes frequently progresses to destroy the articular cartilages and underlying bone, resulting in permanent disability. Using system biology approach, candidate genes obtained from OMIM (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man) and its interacting proteins were prioritized on the basis of three Gene Ontology terms (Molecular Function, Cellular component, and Biological Process) employing FunSimMat (Functional Similarity Matrix). Among the many, four prioritized proteins NFκBIL1, HCST, MICA, and MICB were selected. Amongst the prioritized genes, literature review suggested that NFκBIL-1 (Nuclear Factor-κ of B-cell Inhibitor Like protein-1) (UniProtKB ID: Q9UBC1) competes against SR (Ser-Arg) protein, ASF/SF2, in negatively regulating CD45RO gene expression in CD4 T-cells, whose overproduction would lead to cytokine outburst, thus leading to an immunological attack. ASF/SF2 mediated splicing variant, CD45RA, otherwise would have prevented overproduction of these cytokines. Overproduced cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-6, IL-15 simultaneously induces inflammatory stress in the synovial membrane and activates stress induced MICA/B (UniProtKB ID: Q29983/Q29980) through downstream signaling following TNFR1-TRAF mediated signaling pathway. Synovial expression of MICA/B enables interaction with its ligand NKG2D associated with DAP10 (UniProt KB ID: Q9UBK5) amply present on CD8+ αβ T-cells, CD4+γδ T-cells, and NK cells, thus promoting cytolysis of MICA/B expressing synoviocytes along with further production of cytokines TNF-α and IL-15. Hence, alteration in NFκBIL-1 promoter induces MICA/B expression that leads in production of cytokines could be a probable cause of chronic RA. 
Int. J. Appl. Sci. Biotechnol. Vol 6(4): 332--338">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5b43c2a662e00bba8427b5a2d32a56e0b82fdb8f" target='_blank'>Computational Biology Approach for Deciphering Etiological Pathway of Polygenic Diseases: Rheumatoid Arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Rubi Tamrakar, Anushruti Sangami, Sunita Dangol, P. Aryal
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-27</td>
          <td>International Journal of Applied Sciences and Biotechnology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Without the availability of disease-modifying drugs, there is an unmet therapeutic need for osteoarthritic patients. During osteoarthritis, the homeostasis of articular chondrocytes is dysregulated and a phenotypical transition called hypertrophy occurs, leading to cartilage degeneration. Targeting this phenotypic transition has emerged as a potential therapeutic strategy. Chondrocyte phenotype maintenance and switch are controlled by an intricate network of intracellular factors, each influenced by a myriad of feedback mechanisms, making it challenging to intuitively predict treatment outcomes. In this study, we developed a regulatory network model using knowledge-based and data-driven modelling technologies. The in silico high-throughput screening of (pairwise) perturbations operated with that network model highlighted conditions impacting the hypertrophic switch. Several combinations were tested in a murine cell line and primary chondrocytes to validate the predicted conditions’ potential. Our in silico-in vitro strategy opens a new route for developing osteoarthritis targeting therapies by refining the early stages of drug discovery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9502ed19c5bbc2ed5fb69a63374655055049fee2" target='_blank'>An integrated in silico-in vitro approach for identification of therapeutic drug targets for osteoarthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Lesage, M. F. Ferrao Blanco, R. Narcisi, T. Welting, G. V. van Osch, L. Geris
          </td>
          <td>2021-09-27</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Contributions to ISCB Award Given to Fran Lewitter Christiana N. Fogg, Diane E. Kovats* and Bonnie Berger Freelance Science Writer, Kensington, Maryland, United States of America, Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA, Department of Mathematics, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA and International Society for Computational Biology, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4447cefd00c6a42c10c5af831a73bb30abbc4218" target='_blank'>Message from the ISCB: 2017 Outstanding Contributions to ISCB Award Given to Fran Lewitter</a></td>
          <td>
            Christiana N. Fogg, D. Kovats, B. Berger
          </td>
          <td>2017-07-15</td>
          <td>Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>70</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bdb1870cbe145e496b71a1e0a63a373b67598df7" target='_blank'>Classifying Rheumatoid Arthritis gene network signatures for identifying key regulatory molecules and their altered pathways by adopting network biology approach</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Snijesh, M. Matchado, Sachidanand Singh
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-01</td>
          <td>Gene Reports</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b0322985cc60094c6a0bf729537b43e8516c5a28" target='_blank'>eMIC-AntiKP: Estimating minimum inhibitory concentrations of antibiotics towards Klebsiella pneumoniae using deep learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Quang H Nguyen, Hoang H. Ngo, T. Nguyen-Vo, T. Do, Susanto Rahardja, Binh P. Nguyen
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7d4561e7b85207ec8ba88b76df60cbaf345c4554" target='_blank'>PRO-Simat: Protein network simulation and design tool</a></td>
          <td>
            Rana Salihoğlu, Mugdha Srivastava, Chunguang Liang, Klaus Schilling, Aladar Szalay, Elena Bencurova, Thomas Dandekar
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cb1362bd04da092f52daf0d963a16a0b5c02a027" target='_blank'>Networks, biology and systems engineering: A case study in inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            Panagiota T. Foteinou, E. Yang, I. Androulakis
          </td>
          <td>2009-12-10</td>
          <td>Computers & chemical engineering</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="PREFACE. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. ACRONYMS. 1 Introduction. 1.1 Basic Concepts in Molecular Biology. 1.2 Biomolecular Networks in Cells. 1.3 Network Systems Biology. 1.4 About This Book. I GENE NETWORKS. 2 Transcription Regulation: Networks and Models. 2.1 Transcription Regulation and Gene Expression. 2.2 Networks in Transcription Regulation. 2.3 Nonlinear Models Based on Biochemical Reactions. 2.4 Integrated Models for Regulatory Networks. 2.5 Summary. 3 Reconstruction of Gene Regulatory Networks. 3.1 Mathematical Models of Gene Regulatory Network. 3.2 Reconstructing Gene Regulatory Networks. 3.3 Inferring Gene Networks from Multiple Datasets. 3.4 Gene Network-Based Drug Target Identification. 3.5 Summary. 4 Inference of Transcriptional Regulatory Networks. 4.1 Predicting TF Binding Sites and Promoters. 4.2 Inference of Transcriptional Interactions. 4.3 Identifying Combinatorial Regulations of TFs. 4.4 Inferring Cooperative Regulatory Networks. 4.5 Prediction of Transcription Factor Activity. 4.6 Summary. II PROTEIN INTERACTION NETWORKS. 5 Prediction of Protein-Protein Interactions. 5.1 Experimental Protein-Protein Interactions. 5.2 Prediction of Protein-Protein Interactions. 5.3 Protein Interaction Prediction Based on Multidomain Pairs. 5.4 Domain Interaction Prediction Methods. 5.5 Summary. 6 Topological Structure of Biomolecular Networks. 6.1 Statistical Properties of Biomolecular Networks. 6.2 Evolution of Protein Interaction Networks. 6.3 Hubs, Motifs, and Modularity in Biomolecular Networks. 6.4 Explorative Roles of Hubs and Network Motifs. 6.5 Modularity Evaluation of Biomolecular Networks. 6.6 Summary. 7 Alignment of Biomolecular Networks. 7.1 Biomolecular Networks from Multiple Species. 7.2 Pairwise Alignment of Biomolecular Networks. 7.3 Network Alignment by Mathematical Programming. 7.4 Multiple Alignment of Biomolecular Networks. 7.5 Subnetwork and Pathway Querying. 7.6 Summary. 8 Network-Based Prediction of Protein Function. 8.1 Protein Function and Annotation. 8.2 Protein Functional Module Detection. 8.3 Functional Linkage for Protein Function Annotation. 8.4 Protein Function Prediction from High-Throughput Data. 8.5 Function Annotation Methods for Domains. 8.6 Summary. III METABOLIC NETWORKS AND SIGNALING NETWORKS. 9 Metabolic Networks: Analysis, Reconstruction, and Application. 9.1 Cellular Metabolism and Metabolic Pathways. 9.2 Metabolic Network Analysis and Modeling. 9.3 Reconstruction of Metabolic Networks. 9.4 Drug Target Detection in Metabolic Networks. 9.5 Summary. 10 Signaling Networks: Modeling and Inference. 10.1 Signal Transduction in Cellular Systems. 10.2 Modeling of Signal Transduction Pathways. 10.3 Inferring Signaling Networks from High-Throughput Data. 10.4 Inferring Signaling Networks by Linear Programming. 10.5 Inferring Signaling Networks from Experimental Evidence. 10.6 Summary. 11 Other Topics and New Trends. 11.1 Network-Based Protein Structural Analysis. 11.2 Integration of Biomolecular Networks. 11.3 Posttranscriptional Regulation of Noncoding RNAs. 11.4 Biomolecular Interactions and Human Diseases. 11.5 Summary. REFERENCES. INDEX.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a91bf9907e008c711ec21f4e18aec163b1ded560" target='_blank'>Biomolecular Networks: Methods and Applications in Systems Biology</a></td>
          <td>
            Luonan Chen, Rui-Sheng Wang, Xiang-Sun Zhang
          </td>
          <td>2009-07-20</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>170</td>
          <td>60</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 IL-17 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that promotes autoimmunity and protects against certain pathogens. Here, we present a computational model of signaling downstream of the IL-17 receptor. To manage the complexity of the system we use a rule-based modeling approach, in which signaling proteins are modeled as structured objects and rules describe their biochemical interactions. The model includes 19 molecules and 46 reaction rules, which expand to a reaction network with 168 distinct chemical species - complexes and phosphoforms of the basic molecules - which are connected through a network of 5,145 unidirectional reactions. The model is defined and simulated using the BioNetGen software. This model encompasses major signaling components downstream of IL-17R, which activate NF-κB and in turn promote the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. NF-κB also promotes production of A20, a deubiquitinating enzyme that inhibits NF-κB activation in multiple settings. We recently showed that A20 is a negative regulator of the IL-17 signaling pathway. By modeling A20 interactions with TRAF6 and IKK, we are able to recapitulate experimentally-observed oscillations in NF-κB-dependent A20 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels. Further expansion of the model, along with additional experimental work tracking the dynamics of signaling intermediates, will enable us to explore novel hypotheses about the regulatory mechanisms of A20 and other potential regulators of IL-17 signaling.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a9f4b94bc3bb1a00e25ad4786874421c1fb7574a" target='_blank'>A computational model for mechanistic investigation of negative feedback in Inerleukin-17 receptor signaling (CCR6P.274)</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Sheehan, A. Garg, S. Gaffen, J. Faeder
          </td>
          <td>2014-05-01</td>
          <td>The Journal of Immunology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>74</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modern medicine and biology have been transformed into quantitative sciences of high complexity, with challenging objectives. The aims of medicine are related to early diagnosis, effective therapy, accurate intervention, real time monitoring, procedures/systems/instruments optimization, error reduction, and knowledge extraction. Concurrently, following the explosive production of biological data concerning DNA, RNA, and protein biomolecules, a plethora of questions has been raised in relation to their structure and function, the interactions between them, their relationships and dependencies, their regulation and expression, their location, and their thermodynamic characteristics. Furthermore, the interplay between medicine and biology gives rise to fields like molecular medicine and systems biology which are further interconnected with physics, mathematics, informatics, and engineering. Modelling and simulation is a powerful tool in the fields of Medicine and Biology. Simulating the phenomena hidden inside a diagnostic or therapeutic medical procedure, we are able to obtain control on the whole system and perform multilevel optimization. Furthermore, modelling and simulation gives insights in the various scales of biological representation, facilitating the understanding of the huge amounts of derived data and the related mechanisms behind them. Several examples, as well as the insights and the perspectives of simulations in biomedicine will be presented.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cebb71f3c353f315873a1dedb3c5148c706c1055" target='_blank'>Simulations in Medicine and Biology: Insights and perspectives</a></td>
          <td>
            G. Spyrou
          </td>
          <td>2015-01-21</td>
          <td>Journal of Physics: Conference Series</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0dcbe2ff6ffb2c344242a68300cdd1dc93856eba" target='_blank'>A genomics-based systems approach towards drug repositioning for rheumatoid arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Rong Xu, QuanQiu Wang
          </td>
          <td>2016-08-01</td>
          <td>BMC Genomics</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0dcbe2ff6ffb2c344242a68300cdd1dc93856eba" target='_blank'>A genomics-based systems approach towards drug repositioning for rheumatoid arthritis</a></td>
          <td>
            Rong Xu, QuanQiu Wang
          </td>
          <td>2016-08-01</td>
          <td>BMC Genomics</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/688bdf93e0b5923c287709c96a57a560ed30bee9" target='_blank'>A systems approach to dissecting immunity and inflammation.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Aderem, Kelly D. Smith
          </td>
          <td>2004-02-01</td>
          <td>Seminars in immunology</td>
          <td>77</td>
          <td>98</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1c1ae0214bde8f85cc14caae610fba1d016fa388" target='_blank'>Parameter estimation of qualitative biological regulatory networks on high performance computing hardware</a></td>
          <td>
            M. T. Saeed, Jamil Ahmad, J. Baumbach, J. Pauling, A. Shafi, R. Z. Paracha, Asad Hayat, Amjad Ali
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-01</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Nowadays autoimmune diseases are widely distributed. More than 80 illnesses are included into this group of conditions. Their causes are not clear exactly, but it is believed that among them are ge...">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c50f121a51b2b86a27796d7837feea546c06f4b1" target='_blank'>A computational study of autoimmune disease model</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Nikolova, A. Markovska, M. Kolev
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-21</td>
          <td>Asian-european Journal of Mathematics</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ca6ad7570da7b1f61454f96b5a0a0d4f114ebaf7" target='_blank'>The Atlas of Inflammation Resolution (AIR)</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Serhan, Shailendra Gupta, M. Perretti, C. Godson, E. Brennan, Yongsheng Li, O. Soehnlein, Takao Shimizu, O. Werz, V. Chiurchiù, A. Azzi, M. Dubourdeau, Suchi Gupta, Patrick Schopohl, Matti Hoch, Dragana Gjorgevikj, Faiz M. Khan, D. Brauer, Anurag Tripathi, K. Cesnulevicius, D. Lescheid, Myron Schultz, E. Särndahl, D. Repsilber, R. Kruse, A. Sala, J. Haeggström, B. Levy, J. Filep, O. Wolkenhauer
          </td>
          <td>2020-08-01</td>
          <td>Molecular Aspects of Medicine</td>
          <td>95</td>
          <td>167</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Motivation The literature on complex diseases is abundant but not always quantitative. This is particularly so for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), where many molecular pathways are qualitatively well described but this information cannot be used in traditional quantitative mathematical models employed in drug development. We propose the elaboration and validation of a logic network for IBD able to capture the information available in the literature that will facilitate the identification/validation of therapeutic targets. Results In this article, we propose a logic model for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) which consists of 43 nodes and 298 qualitative interactions. The model presented is able to describe the pathogenic mechanisms of the disorder and qualitatively describes the characteristic chronic inflammation. A perturbation analysis performed on the IBD network indicates that the model is robust. Also, as described in clinical trials, a simulation of anti-TNFα, anti-IL2 and Granulocyte and Monocyte Apheresis showed a decrease in the Metalloproteinases node (MMPs), which means a decrease in tissue damage. In contrast, as clinical trials have demonstrated, a simulation of anti-IL17 and anti-IFNγ or IL10 overexpression therapy did not show any major change in MMPs expression, as corresponds to a failed therapy. The model proved to be a promising in silico tool for the evaluation of potential therapeutic targets, the identification of new IBD biomarkers, the integration of IBD polymorphisms to anticipate responders and non-responders and can be reduced and transformed in quantitative model/s.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c655f04a31d1dc93671152d749f2e63985c7bf3" target='_blank'>A systems pharmacology model for inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, Leire Ruiz-Cerdá, I. Irurzun-Arana, I. González-García, A. Vermeulen, J. Gómez-Mantilla, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2018-03-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Quantitative modeling of biopathway dynamics is crucial to the system-level understanding of cellular functions and behavior. Currently, a common method of representing bio-pathways is through a system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs). However, calibrating and analyzing large ODE-based pathway models often requires a large number of numerical simulations. To address this issue, this book presents a probabilistic approximation approach. by which the analysis of ODE-based models can be considerably simplified. The applicability of these techniques has been by studying two existing pathways and a "live" pathway called the complement system in collaboration with biologists. Apart from improved performance, the crucial insights gained from the study of complement system could contribute to the development of immunomodulation therapies. This book should be useful to researches in Computational Systems Biology field, or anyone else who may be considering utilizing ODEs for their modeling efforts.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/62eae9858d8b425d063a9e640f8f97a6de33124e" target='_blank'>Computational Modeling of Biological Pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            Bing Liu
          </td>
          <td>2012-01-25</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a0a803d40dd5b8ba867a28b54056f2d7a2a4b255" target='_blank'>A dynamic single cell-based framework for digital twins to prioritize disease genes and drug targets</a></td>
          <td>
            Xinxiu Li, Eun Jung Lee, S. Lilja, J. Loscalzo, Samuel Schäfer, Martin Smelik, M. R. Strobl, O. Sysoev, Hui Wang, Huan Zhang, Yelin Zhao, D. Gawel, Barbara Bohle, M. Benson
          </td>
          <td>2022-05-06</td>
          <td>Genome Medicine</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>137</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Computer science and biology have come together significantly in recent years. This trend dates back to the 1960s, with the publication of the first protein sequences, the subsequent application of information theory the first alignment algorithms in the 1970s and 1980s that culminated with its improvement and implementation in the 1990s with software such as BLAST, which became one of the most cited articles in the history of science. Already in this millennium there has been a rapid growth of large-scale sequencing projects (e.g. the Human Genome Project), as well as the widespread expansion of omics databases, e.g. with genomic, transcriptomic and metabolic information. This explosion is transforming medicine and the life sciences, whose progress is increasingly associated with a strong integration with Computer Science and Engineering, which are likely to represent, in the 21st century, a similar role to that of Mathematics in Physics of the 20th century. This talk will overview some of the progress at the interface highlighting some of the associated challenges.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3b0eb4a1cdb86ee9db241ec41cbe0d6cda1efdbf" target='_blank'>Bridging computer science and bioengineering for the multiscale modeling of biological systems</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Vinga
          </td>
          <td>2019-03-29</td>
          <td>Annals of Medicine</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>