---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-02-03 06:07:51 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Quantitative systems pharmacology model‐based investigation of adverse gastrointestinal events associated with prolonged treatment with PI3‐kinase inhibitors</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disorders are non-infectious chronic inflammation of the esophageal tract (IBD). IBD is divided into two types: ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease. The highest incidence and prevalence rates of ulcerative colitis are seen in North America and northern Europe, with incidence rates ranging from 9 to 20 cases per 100 000 person-years and prevalence rates ranging from 156 to 291 cases per 100 000 persons. OZM is contraindicated in patients with previous history of cardiovascular complications. The dose and dosage of OZM is 0.23 mg by oral route (qDay) for 1 to 4 days followed by 5 to 7:0.46 mg and on eighth day titrated to 0.92 mg PO (qDay). OZM is not highly recommended in pregnant and lactating women since existing animal studies not reported with enough evidence. The in silico analysis of Ozanimod (OZM) is not yet been fully characterized. The current study was designed to investigate the pharmacokinetic profile of the OZM and its interaction potential with UC target protein.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8146d60559fce654360081441e7243fe352e72cd" target='_blank'>Network pharmacology and in silico pharmacokinetic prediction of Ozanimod in the management of ulcerative colitis: A computational study</a></td>
          <td>
            Priya Sivasakthi, Sarvesh Sabarathinam, T. Vijayakumar
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-01</td>
          <td>Health Science Reports</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Clinical evidence supports the combination therapy of vedolizumab (a gut-selective, anti-lymphocyte trafficking drug inhibiting α4β7-integrin) with JAK 1, 2, 3 inhibitors (JAKi) for Inflammatory Bowel Disease. However, the mechanistic explanation for the improved outcomes in Ulcerative Colitis patients treated with vedolizumab plus JAKi remains unknown and even more in Crohn's Disease (CD). In this study we used an unbiased in silico systems biology and artificial intelligence approach to gain a holistic view of the mechanisms that may underpin the potential benefits of the mentioned combination therapy in the treatment of CD.
 
 
 
 The drugs under study -vedolizumab and JAKi- and CD were characterized at protein level by compiling data from extensive literature search. Through it, human protein interaction networks focused on CD protein effectors were generated and used to construct mathematical models using Therapeutic Performance Mapping System (TPMS) technology (Anaxomics Biotech, Barcelona, Spain). Sampling-based methods were employed to assess the impact on CD of the combined therapy vedolizumab plus JAKi and to describe underlying molecular mechanisms.
 
 
 
 Characterization of CD allowed identifying 4 pathological processes (referred to as motives-M) underlying the manifestation of the disease: intestinal barrier disruption (M1), increased innate immune response (M2), chronic inflammation and Th1/Th17 adaptive immune response (M3) and tissue remodeling (M4) and the molecular effectors or proteins involved in each motive. The combination of vedolizumab and JAKi induced a high degree of reversion of the effectors altered in CD (54.76%), higher than the percentage reverted by the individual drugs. Combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy mainly modulated M3, where both drugs mostly converge although by distinct mechanisms, thus providing additional individual benefits. The combination therapy reverted a great percentage of M3 effectors, for example, CCR9 and FASLG which were increased in CD, were reverted (or downregulated). In addition to M3 modulation, the combination therapy also modulated M1 and M4. In M1, vedolizumab is the one that would provide more complementary mechanisms apart from those that already converge in both drugs. Regarding M4, it seems that main contribution comes from complementarity pathways of the different mechanisms of action of each individual drug.
 
 
 
 The constructed in silico models reveal that the combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy could modulate a high array of effectors altered in CD, more than any of the therapies alone, by enhancing the effects of the individual drugs, and provide a mechanistic rationale for employing the combination of these drugs as potential therapy for CD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37afddf4916b5088749544ad27899c601491b710" target='_blank'>P969 Unveiling the molecular mechanisms of the combination of vedolizumab with JAK inhibitors in Crohn’s Disease through a systems biology and artificial intelligence-based approach</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Marín-Jiménez, M. Sierra-Ausín, T. Letosa-Abián, J. Aparicio, C. Montoto-Otero, S. Sánchez-Ramón
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex inflammatory bowel disease whose pathogenesis appears to involve several immunologic defects causing functional impairment of the gut. Its complexity and the reported loss of effectiveness over time of standard of care together with the increase in its worldwide incidence require the application of techniques aiming to find new therapeutic strategies. Currently, systems pharmacology modeling has been gaining importance as it integrates the available knowledge of the system into a single computational model. In this work, the following workflow for robust application of systems pharmacology modeling was followed: 1) scope definition; 2) species selection and circulating plasma levels based on a search in the literature; 3) representation of model topology and parametrization of the interactions, after literature data extraction and curation, and the implementation of ordinary differential equations in SimBiology (MATLAB version R2018b); and 4) model curation and evaluation by visual comparison of simulated interleukin (IL) concentrations with the reported levels in plasma, and sensitivity analysis performed to confirm model robustness and identify the most influential parameters. Finally, 5) exposure to two dose levels of recombinant human IL10 was evaluated by simulation and comparison with reported clinical study results. In summary, we present a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main ILs involved in CD developed using a standardized methodology and supported by a comprehensive repository summarizing the most relevant literature in the field. However, it has to be taken into account that external validation is still pending as available clinical data were primarily used for model training. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex heterogeneous inflammatory bowel disorder. Systems pharmacology modeling offers a great opportunity for integration of the available knowledge on the disease using a computational framework. As a result of this work, a comprehensive repository along with a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main interleukins involved in CD is provided. This model is useful for the in silico evaluation of biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets and can be adapted to address research gaps regarding CD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc1b59cbda9a63547cdc28a859ad8c140d010a08" target='_blank'>A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model for the Key Interleukins Involved in Crohn's Disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, E. Asín-Prieto, Zinnia P. Parra-Guillen, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2019-12-10</td>
          <td>The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/89c7e6ab7fbb95d4ba21232ecb08853aa046f59b" target='_blank'>Models for Disease Progression: New Approaches and Uses</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Mould
          </td>
          <td>2012-07-01</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics</td>
          <td>69</td>
          <td>36</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2bf91901f6646b9e981fd3c56b8f32b335dae8f8" target='_blank'>Training in Systems Pharmacology: Predoctoral Program in Pharmacology and Systems Biology at Mount Sinai School of Medicine</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Sobie, Sherry L. Jenkins, Ravi Iyengar, T. A. Krulwich
          </td>
          <td>2010-07-01</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>55</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1155/2022/7102500.].">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ee8964d4d366bc0df5964c9fdf0ea5152179ff69" target='_blank'>Retracted: Network Pharmacology-Based Strategy to Investigate the Mechanisms of Lenvatinib in the Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma</a></td>
          <td>
            Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-29</td>
          <td>Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Rare diseases, affecting millions globally, present significant drug development challenges. This is due to the limited patient populations and the unique pathophysiology of these diseases, which can make traditional clinical trial designs unfeasible. Quantitative Systems Pharmacology (QSP) models offer a promising approach to expedite drug development, particularly in rare diseases. QSP models provide a mechanistic representation of the disease and drug response in virtual patients that can complement routinely applied empirical modeling and simulation approaches. QSP models can generate digital twins of actual patients and mechanistically simulate the disease progression of rare diseases, accounting for phenotypic heterogeneity. QSP models can also support drug development in various drug modalities, such as gene therapy. Impactful QSP models case studies are presented here to illustrate their value in supporting various aspects of drug development in rare indications. As these QSP model applications continue to mature, there is a growing possibility that they could be more widely integrated into routine drug development steps. This integration could provide a robust framework for addressing some of the inherent challenges in rare disease drug development.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/501aa60f69949c250c5052e0be685b26e600d873" target='_blank'>Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Models: Potential Tools for Advancing Drug Development for Rare Diseases.</a></td>
          <td>
            Susana Neves-Zaph, C. Kaddi
          </td>
          <td>2024-09-28</td>
          <td>Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway plays an essential role in a wide range of biological functions, including metabolism, macromolecular synthesis, cell growth, proliferation and survival. Its versatility, however, makes it a conspicuous target of many pathogens; and the consequential deregulations of this pathway often lead to complications, such as tumorigenesis, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Molecular targeted therapy, aimed at modulating the deregulated pathway, holds great promise for controlling these diseases, though side effects may be inevitable, given the ubiquity of the pathway in cell functions. Here, we review a variety of factors found to modulate the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway, including gene mutations, certain metabolites, inflammatory factors, chemical toxicants, drugs found to rectify the pathway, as well as viruses that hijack the pathway for their own synthetic purposes. Furthermore, this evidence of PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway alteration and related pathogenesis has inspired the exploration of computer-aided targeting of this pathway to optimize therapeutic strategies. Herein, we discuss several possible options, using computer-aided targeting, to reduce the toxicity of molecularly-targeted therapy, including mathematical modeling, to reveal system-level control mechanisms and to confer a low-dosage combination therapy, the potential of PP2A as a therapeutic target, the formulation of parameters to identify patients who would most benefit from specific targeted therapies and molecular dynamics simulations and docking studies to discover drugs that are isoform specific or mutation selective so as to avoid undesired broad inhibitions. We hope this review will stimulate novel ideas for pharmaceutical discovery and deepen our understanding of curability and toxicity by targeting the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a239a9bcbc27d4f54168e23a86176191525dc7a8" target='_blank'>Computer-Aided Targeting of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR Pathway: Toxicity Reduction and Therapeutic Opportunities</a></td>
          <td>
            Tan Li, Guanyu Wang
          </td>
          <td>2014-10-01</td>
          <td>International Journal of Molecular Sciences</td>
          <td>70</td>
          <td>16</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Department of Gastroenterology, Guangdong Provincial People’s Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China, The Second School of Clinical Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China, Shantou University Medical College, Shantou University, Shantou, China, Department of Computer Science, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China, Sepulveda Ambulatory Care Center, VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA, United States, University of California Los Angeles David Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d27aebc14245b473fcf6eae2729d7890fa59877d" target='_blank'>Editorial: Exploration of genetic variation, drug response, and interactions between gastrointestinal disorders and other diseases</a></td>
          <td>
            Shuangshuang Tong, Yanlin Lyu, Ruibang Luo, Felix W. Leung, W. Sha, Hao Chen
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-13</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Pharmacology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="With the advent of effective immunotherapies to battle cancers and diseases, an obstacle in recovery has become the potential side effects, specifically cytokine release syndrome (CRS). As there is little quantitative understanding of risks for developing CRS and the degree of its severity, this work explored a model-based approach to produce a library of in silico patients through sensitivity analysis of cytokine interaction parameters and a Monte Carlo sampling. The objective of producing the in silico patients was to correlate a known grading system of cytokine release syndrome severity and thus design a new formula for grading CRS. Using our CRS grading system as the foundation, this work produced not only a formula which related the in silico patient data to the different grades, but we effectively demonstrated a selective approach to reduce the grade of CRS with sequential cytokine inhibition targets. We achieved the reduction of grades by applying the insight from the sensitivity analysis, beginning with the most sensitive targets. Cytokines IL-1, IL-8, TNF-α, INF-γ, IL-6, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-12 were in turn the best targets for inhibition to alleviate CRS. Using this approach, patient cytokine time profiles in real-time can be related to the CRS grading system and if the grade is severe enough, action can be taken earlier during the treatment to prevent potentially life-threatening symptoms. What’s more, the identified inhibition sequence of the 9 cytokines provides guidance for clinical intervention of CRS.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cdbed3634ba13aed3fc2c3d954812638cfe069fa" target='_blank'>A Model-Based Investigation of Cytokine Dynamics in Immunotherapies</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Hopkins, Yiming Pan, M. Tucker, Z. Huang
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-30</td>
          <td>Processes</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) places an emphasis on dynamic systems modeling, incorporating considerations from systems biology modeling and pharmacodynamics. The goal of QSP is often to quantitatively predict the effects of clinical therapeutics, their combinations, and their doses on clinical biomarkers and endpoints. In order to achieve this goal, strategies for incorporating clinical data into model calibration are critical. Virtual population (VPop) approaches facilitate model calibration while faced with challenges encountered in QSP model application, including modeling a breadth of clinical therapies, biomarkers, endpoints, utilizing data of varying structure and source, capturing observed clinical variability, and simulating with models that may require more substantial computational time and resources than often found in pharmacometrics applications. VPops are frequently developed in a process that may involve parameterization of isolated pathway models, integration into a larger QSP model, incorporation of clinical data, calibration, and quantitative validation that the model with the accompanying, calibrated VPop is suitable to address the intended question or help with the intended decision. Here, we introduce previous strategies for developing VPops in the context of a variety of therapeutic and safety areas: metabolic disorders, drug-induced liver injury, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. We introduce methodological considerations, prior work for sensitivity analysis and VPop algorithm design, and potential areas for future advancement. Finally, we give a more detailed application example of a VPop calibration algorithm that illustrates recent progress and many of the methodological considerations. In conclusion, although methodologies have varied, VPop strategies have been successfully applied to give valid clinical insights and predictions with the assistance of carefully defined and designed calibration and validation strategies. While a uniform VPop approach for all potential QSP applications may be challenging given the heterogeneity in use considerations, we anticipate continued innovation will help to drive VPop application for more challenging cases of greater scale while developing new rigorous methodologies and metrics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/68337aa80c1390201d9ea07d9ae681ebb37bfaa5" target='_blank'>Virtual Populations for Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Models.</a></td>
          <td>
            Yougan Cheng, R. Straube, Abed Alnaif, Lu Huang, T. Leil, B. Schmidt
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-24</td>
          <td>Methods in molecular biology</td>
          <td>22</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) model of the pathogenesis and treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infection can streamline and accelerate the development of novel medicines to treat COVID-19. Simulation of clinical trials allows in silico exploration of the uncertainties of clinical trial design and can rapidly inform their protocols. We previously published a preliminary model of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. To further our understanding of COVID-19 and treatment, we significantly updated the model by matching a curated dataset spanning viral load and immune responses in plasma and lung. We identified a population of parameter sets to generate heterogeneity in pathophysiology and treatment and tested this model against published reports from interventional SARS-CoV-2 targeting mAb and antiviral trials. Upon generation and selection of a virtual population, we match both the placebo and treated responses in viral load in these trials. We extended the model to predict the rate of hospitalization or death within a population. Via comparison of the in silico predictions with clinical data, we hypothesize that the immune response to virus is log-linear over a wide range of viral load. To validate this approach, we show the model matches a published subgroup analysis, sorted by baseline viral load, of patients treated with neutralizing Abs. By simulating intervention at different time points post infection, the model predicts efficacy is not sensitive to interventions within five days of symptom onset, but efficacy is dramatically reduced if more than five days pass post symptom onset prior to treatment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ac952ba3508fc13b6ca5e8d7e11d7a7086f9b72d" target='_blank'>A quantitative systems pharmacology model of the pathophysiology and treatment of COVID-19 predicts optimal timing of pharmacological interventions</a></td>
          <td>
            Rohit Rao, C. Musante, R. Allen
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-08</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c536333e7bdcd1289228f777b10c660165468f60" target='_blank'>Computational systems biology in disease modeling and control, review and perspectives</a></td>
          <td>
            Rongting Yue, Abhishek Dutta
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-03</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>34</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Omics and drug molecules become increasingly influential in identifying disease mechanisms and drug response. Because diseases and drug responses are co-expressed and regulated in the relevant omics interactions, the traditional way that grabbing molecular data from single isolated layers cannot always obtain valuable inference. Also, adverse effects exist in drugs that impair patients, and launching new medicines for diseases is costly. To resolve the above difficulties, systems biology is then applied to predict potential molecular interaction elements by integrating omics data from genomic, proteomic, transcriptional, and metabolic layers. Combined with known drug reactions, the resulting models improve medicines’ therapeutical performance by re-purposing the existing drugs and combining drug molecules without off-target effects. Based on the identified computational models, drug administration control laws are designed to balance toxicity and efficacy. This review introduces biomedical applications and analyses of interactions among omics and drug molecules for modeling disease mechanism and drug response. The therapeutical performance can be improved by combining the predictive and computational models with drug administration designed by control laws. The challenges are discussed for its clinic uses.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e1209aa00eb2b7665c9076ebc887ae3b0626ec5e" target='_blank'>Systems biology in disease modeling and control, analysis and perspectives</a></td>
          <td>
            Rongting Yue, Abhishek Dutta
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-02</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systems biology uses experimental and computational approaches to characterize large sample populations systematically, process large datasets, examine and analyze regulatory networks, and model reactions to determine how components are joined to form functional systems. Systems biology technologies, data and knowledge are particularly useful in understanding disease processes and drug actions. An important area of integration between systems biology and drug discovery is the concept of polypharmacology: the treatment of diseases by modulating more than one target. Polypharmacology for complex diseases is likely to involve multiple drugs acting on distinct targets that are part of a network regulating physiological responses. This review discusses the current state of the systems-level understanding of diseases and both the therapeutic and adverse mechanisms of drug actions. Drug-target networks can be used to identify multiple targets and to determine suitable combinations of drug targets or drugs. Thus, the discovery of new drug therapies for complex diseases may be greatly aided by systems biology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5c8d6d727872a3a2e8a4f216b1fb0d4986fa5c04" target='_blank'>Systems approaches to polypharmacology and drug discovery.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Boran, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>2010-05-01</td>
          <td>Current opinion in drug discovery & development</td>
          <td>265</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systems approaches have long been used in pharmacology to understand drug action at the organ and organismal levels. The application of computational and experimental systems biology approaches to pharmacology allows us to expand the definition of systems pharmacology to include network analyses at multiple scales of biological organization and to explain both therapeutic and adverse effects of drugs. Systems pharmacology analyses rely on experimental "omics" technologies that are capable of measuring changes in large numbers of variables, often at a genome-wide level, to build networks for analyzing drug action. A major use of omics technologies is to relate the genomic status of an individual to the therapeutic efficacy of a drug of interest. Combining pathway and network analyses, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic models, and a knowledge of polymorphisms in the genome will enable the development of predictive models of therapeutic efficacy. Network analyses based on publicly available databases such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Event Reporting System allow us to develop an initial understanding of the context within which molecular-level drug-target interactions can lead to distal effectors in a process that results in adverse phenotypes at the organ and organismal levels. The current state of systems pharmacology allows us to formulate a set of questions that could drive future research in the field. The long-term goal of such research is to develop polypharmacology for complex diseases and predict therapeutic efficacy and adverse event risk for individuals prior to commencement of therapy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/eff87d5850df2c45dab80bb553ce9e3f2d562ade" target='_blank'>Systems pharmacology: network analysis to identify multiscale mechanisms of drug action.</a></td>
          <td>
            Shan Zhao, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>2012-01-11</td>
          <td>Annual review of pharmacology and toxicology</td>
          <td>305</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Drug development in oncology commonly exploits the tools of molecular biology to gain therapeutic benefit through reprograming of cellular responses. In immuno‐oncology (IO) the aim is to direct the patient’s own immune system to fight cancer. After remarkable successes of antibodies targeting PD1/PD‐L1 and CTLA4 receptors in targeted patient populations, the focus of further development has shifted toward combination therapies. However, the current drug‐development approach of exploiting a vast number of possible combination targets and dosing regimens has proven to be challenging and is arguably inefficient. In particular, the unprecedented number of clinical trials testing different combinations may no longer be sustainable by the population of available patients. Further development in IO requires a step change in selection and validation of candidate therapies to decrease development attrition rate and limit the number of clinical trials. Quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) proposes to tackle this challenge through mechanistic modeling and simulation. Compounds’ pharmacokinetics, target binding, and mechanisms of action as well as existing knowledge on the underlying tumor and immune system biology are described by quantitative, dynamic models aiming to predict clinical results for novel combinations. Here, we review the current QSP approaches, the legacy of mathematical models available to quantitative clinical pharmacologists describing interaction between tumor and immune system, and the recent development of IO QSP platform models. We argue that QSP and virtual patients can be integrated as a new tool in existing IO drug development approaches to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the search for novel combination therapies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ffe4c7719ed81361b93340d169c24788387a66ae" target='_blank'>Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Approaches for Immuno‐Oncology: Adding Virtual Patients to the Development Paradigm</a></td>
          <td>
            Vijayalakshmi Chelliah, Georgia Lazarou, Sumit Bhatnagar, J. Gibbs, M. Nijsen, Avijit Ray, B. Stoll, R. Thompson, A. Gulati, S. Soukharev, A. Yamada, Jared Weddell, Hiroyuki Sayama, Masayo Oishi, S. Wittemer-Rump, C. Patel, Christoph Niederalt, R. Burghaus, Christian Scheerans, J. Lippert, S. Kabilan, I. Kareva, N. Belousova, A. Rolfe, A. Zutshi, M. Chenel, Filippo Venezia, Sylvain Fouliard, H. Oberwittler, A. Scholer-Dahirel, H. Lelièvre, D. Bottino, Sabrina C. Collins, Hoa Q. Nguyen, Haiqing Wang, Tomoki Yoneyama, Andy Z. X. Zhu, Piet H. Graaf, A. Kierzek
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-19</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics</td>
          <td>51</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We address the need for modelling and predicting adverse outcomes in immunotoxicology to improve non-clinical assessments of immunomodulatory therapy safety and efficacy. The integrated approach includes, first, the adverse outcome pathway concept established in the toxicology field, and, second, the systems medicine disease map approach for describing molecular mechanisms involved in a particular pathology. The proposed systems immunotoxicology workflow is demonstrated with CAR T cell treatment as a use case. To this end, the linear adverse outcome pathway (AOP) is expanded into a molecular interaction model in standard systems biology formats. Then it is shown how knowledge related to immunotoxic events can be integrated, encoded, managed and explored to benefit the research community. The map is accessible online via the MINERVA Platform for browsing, commenting and data visualisation (https://minerva.pages.uni.lu). Our work transforms a graphical illustration of an AOP into a digitally structured and standardised form, featuring precise and controlled vocabulary and supporting reproducible computational analyses. Because of annotations to source literature and databases, the map can be further expanded to match the evolving knowledge and research questions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1d13f7d84fd51fe9ce0ef217f6267f61784e78d9" target='_blank'>Using interactive platforms to encode, manage and explore immune-related adverse outcome pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Mazein, Muhammad Shoaib, M. Alb, C. Sakellariou, Charline Sommer, K. Sewald, K. Reiche, Patricia Gogesch, Luise A Roser, Samira Ortega Iannazzo, S. Sheth, S. Schiffmann, Z. Waibler, V. Neuhaus, Susann Dehmel, Venkata P. Satagopam, Reinhard Schneider, M. Ostaszewski, Wei Gu
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-23</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>30</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="mrgsolve is an open‐source R package available on the Comprehensive R Archive Network. It combines R and C++ coding for simulation from hierarchical, ordinary differential equation–based models. Its efficient simulation engine and integration into a parallelizable, R‐based workflow makes mrgsolve a convenient tool both for simple and complex models and thus is ideal for physiologically‐based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) model. This tutorial will first introduce the basics of the mrgsolve simulation workflow, including model specification, the introduction of interventions (dosing events) into the simulation, and simulated results postprocessing. An applied simulation example is then presented using a PBPK model for voriconazole, including a model validation step against adult and pediatric data sets. A final simulation example is then presented using a previously published QSP model for mitogen‐activated protein kinase signaling in colorectal cancer, illustrating population simulation of different combination therapies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4f58af03b1918b56e424198aaef83d3aa5da5080" target='_blank'>Quantitative Systems Pharmacology and Physiologically‐Based Pharmacokinetic Modeling With mrgsolve: A Hands‐On Tutorial</a></td>
          <td>
            Ahmed Elmokadem, M. Riggs, K. Baron
          </td>
          <td>2019-11-14</td>
          <td>CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology</td>
          <td>52</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Dysregulation in signal transduction pathways can lead to a variety of complex disorders, including cancer. Computational approaches such as network analysis are important tools to understand system dynamics as well as to identify critical components that could be further explored as therapeutic targets. Here, we performed perturbation analysis of a large-scale signal transduction model in extracellular environments that stimulate cell death, growth, motility, and quiescence. Each of the model’s components was perturbed under both loss-of-function and gain-of-function mutations. Using 1,300 simulations under both types of perturbations across various extracellular conditions, we identified the most and least influential components based on the magnitude of their influence on the rest of the system. Based on the premise that the most influential components might serve as better drug targets, we characterized them for biological functions, housekeeping genes, essential genes, and druggable proteins. The most influential components under all environmental conditions were enriched with several biological processes. The inositol pathway was found as most influential under inactivating perturbations, whereas the kinase and small lung cancer pathways were identified as the most influential under activating perturbations. The most influential components were enriched with essential genes and druggable proteins. Moreover, known cancer drug targets were also classified in influential components based on the affected components in the network. Additionally, the systemic perturbation analysis of the model revealed a network motif of most influential components which affect each other. Furthermore, our analysis predicted novel combinations of cancer drug targets with various effects on other most influential components. We found that the combinatorial perturbation consisting of PI3K inactivation and overactivation of IP3R1 can lead to increased activity levels of apoptosis-related components and tumor-suppressor genes, suggesting that this combinatorial perturbation may lead to a better target for decreasing cell proliferation and inducing apoptosis. Finally, our approach shows a potential to identify and prioritize therapeutic targets through systemic perturbation analysis of large-scale computational models of signal transduction. Although some components of the presented computational results have been validated against independent gene expression data sets, more laboratory experiments are warranted to more comprehensively validate the presented results.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f61827b05e3b39d1a6c6640e56addecb0b990c6a" target='_blank'>Systems Perturbation Analysis of a Large-Scale Signal Transduction Model Reveals Potentially Influential Candidates for Cancer Therapeutics</a></td>
          <td>
            B. L. Puniya, Laura Allen, C. Hochfelder, M. Majumder, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2015-11-10</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology</td>
          <td>18</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Natural products with polypharmacological profiles have demonstrated promise as novel therapeutics for various complex diseases, including cancer. Currently, many gaps exist in our knowledge of which compounds interact with which targets, and experimentally testing all possible interactions is infeasible. Recent advances and developments of systems pharmacology and computational (in silico) approaches provide powerful tools for exploring the polypharmacological profiles of natural products. In this review, we introduce recent progresses and advances of computational tools and systems pharmacology approaches for identifying drug targets of natural products by focusing on the development of targeted cancer therapy. We survey the polypharmacological and systems immunology profiles of five representative natural products that are being considered as cancer therapies. We summarize various chemoinformatics, bioinformatics and systems biology resources for reconstructing drug-target networks of natural products. We then review currently available computational approaches and tools for prediction of drug-target interactions by focusing on five domains: target-based, ligand-based, chemogenomics-based, network-based and omics-based systems biology approaches. In addition, we describe a practical example of the application of systems pharmacology approaches by integrating the polypharmacology of natural products and large-scale cancer genomics data for the development of precision oncology under the systems biology framework. Finally, we highlight the promise of cancer immunotherapies and combination therapies that target tumor ecosystems (e.g. clones or 'selfish' sub-clones) via exploiting the immunological and inflammatory 'side' effects of natural products in the cancer post-genomics era.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6722151c553bd90dd217a03e68b7796ccd4d83d0" target='_blank'>In silico polypharmacology of natural products</a></td>
          <td>
            Jiansong Fang, Chuang Liu, Qi Wang, P. Lin, F. Cheng
          </td>
          <td>2017-04-27</td>
          <td>Briefings in bioinformatics</td>
          <td>124</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is characterized by symptoms that are dominated by abdominal pain and abnormal bowel habits, as defined by the Rome criteria. The complexity of the disorder is exemplified by the heterogeneity of symptom profiles and the number of putative pathophysiological mechanisms. Currently it is unclear whether IBS is a multifactorial disorder or rather a summary diagnosis for several distinct disease entities displaying similar symptoms. This thesis aims to identify subgroups of clinical relevance by developing and demonstrating symptomand mechanism-based stratification approaches, as well as an integrative analysis pipeline aiming to link different pathophysiological mechanisms. In a clinical sample of IBS patients, as well as in subjects fulfilling IBS in a population-based sample, symptom-based stratification yielded reproducible subgroups, characterized by combinations of gastrointestinal, extra-intestinal somatic and psychological symptoms. In the population-based sample this subgrouping was associated with differences in healthcare utilization. Mechanism-based stratification, focusing on the function of the autonomic nervous system (ANS), demonstrated altered ANS function in IBS patients compared to healthy controls, and identified a subgroup of IBS patients with aberrant overall ANS function, which was associated with more severe diarrhea. This thesis also introduces a stepwise multilevel integrative analysis pipeline using network theory, which presents associations of host-gene expression with mucosa-adherent gut microbiota as well as key IBS symptoms, revealing distinct IBS-specific associations. In conclusion, IBS patients show reproducible subgroups with specific profiles of a comprehensive set of IBS related symptoms and differences in healthcare needs based on these subgroups. Further, multivariate comparisons between IBS patients and healthy controls aid in identifying individuals for which specific complex pathophysiological mechanisms may be of relevance, as demonstrated by identifying a subset of IBS patients with aberrant overall ANS function. This stratification approach could be applied to other pathophysiological mechanisms. Our stepwise multilevel integrative analysis pipeline showed differences in variable associations at the gut mucosal level between IBS patients and healthy controls, and is therefore a model for further, comprehensive analysis of the complex pathophysiology of IBS">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f6504f56649d0fdf449768eba336c5b475f44531" target='_blank'>Stratification and model-based analysis of patients with Irritable Bowel Syndrome using advanced biostatistics and medical data mining techniques</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Polster
          </td>
          <td>2018-05-24</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Motivation The literature on complex diseases is abundant but not always quantitative. This is particularly so for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), where many molecular pathways are qualitatively well described but this information cannot be used in traditional quantitative mathematical models employed in drug development. We propose the elaboration and validation of a logic network for IBD able to capture the information available in the literature that will facilitate the identification/validation of therapeutic targets. Results In this article, we propose a logic model for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) which consists of 43 nodes and 298 qualitative interactions. The model presented is able to describe the pathogenic mechanisms of the disorder and qualitatively describes the characteristic chronic inflammation. A perturbation analysis performed on the IBD network indicates that the model is robust. Also, as described in clinical trials, a simulation of anti-TNFα, anti-IL2 and Granulocyte and Monocyte Apheresis showed a decrease in the Metalloproteinases node (MMPs), which means a decrease in tissue damage. In contrast, as clinical trials have demonstrated, a simulation of anti-IL17 and anti-IFNγ or IL10 overexpression therapy did not show any major change in MMPs expression, as corresponds to a failed therapy. The model proved to be a promising in silico tool for the evaluation of potential therapeutic targets, the identification of new IBD biomarkers, the integration of IBD polymorphisms to anticipate responders and non-responders and can be reduced and transformed in quantitative model/s.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c655f04a31d1dc93671152d749f2e63985c7bf3" target='_blank'>A systems pharmacology model for inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, Leire Ruiz-Cerdá, I. Irurzun-Arana, I. González-García, A. Vermeulen, J. Gómez-Mantilla, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2018-03-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Background Our previous studies demonstrate that ARL4C is the most critical clinical biomarker for gastric cancer (GC) patients among ARL family members (ARLs) and functions as an oncogene in GC. However, its underlying mechanisms in GC need to be further illustrated. In this study, we aim to explore the upstream and downstream molecular mechanisms of ARL4C in GC cells. Methods The genetic alteration of ARL4C in GC is analyzed by cBioPortal database. Potential ARL4C-targeted microRNAs (miRs) are predicted by three databases. The high-throughput RNA sequencing is performed to explore the underlying mechanisms of ARL4C in GC cells. The effects of predicted microRNAs on ARL4C, the RNA-sequencing results validation and the biological functions of ARL4C in GC cells are illustrated by in vitro experiments. Results Genetic analyses indicate that ARL4C is significantly upregulated in GC, which is not caused by gene amplification. MicroRNAs prediction shows the high relevance between ARL4C and miR-302 members. Moreover, miR-302c or miR-302d transfection reduces ARL4C protein expression in GC cells. Based on the high-throughput RNA sequencing of ARL4C-knockdown cells, enrichment analyses demonstrate that ARL4C is closely related to cell growth and involved in p53 signaling. Moreover, there are strong gene–gene interactions between ARL4C and genes in p53 signaling, and ARL4C downregulation could inhibit the protein expression of MDM2, a critical gene in p53 pathway. Further functional experiments demonstrate that ARL4C silencing leads to cell cycle arrest and increased cell apoptosis in AGS and MKN45 cells. Conclusion Our data suggest that miR-302c and miR-302d may function as the upstream regulators of ARL4C. And, ARL4C might promote GC cell cycle progression via regulating p53 signaling. Our findings provide novel insights into the key role of ARL4C and the underlying mechanisms in GC progression, thus facilitating the development of ARL4C-targeted therapy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8fad5c4b719c8fbe160566ddcf1c7a8c8d118ad9" target='_blank'>MicroRNA-302s Might Regulate ARL4C-Mediated Gastric Cancer Progression via p53 Signaling: Bioinformatics Analysis and Experiments Validation</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Xie, Yifei Pan, Jian Wu, Yunfan Bai, Cailan Xiao, Xiaoliang Gao, Jinhai Wang, Na Liu
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-13</td>
          <td>OncoTargets and therapy</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id=".............................................................................................iii DEDICATION.............................................................................................v ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS.............................................................................vi LIST OF TABLES.......................................................................................xv LIST OF FIGURES...................................................................................xviii ABBREVIATIONS......................................................................................xx Chapter">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/580c604d921e2e1348c562d2af6df501aca94108" target='_blank'>In silico strategies to study polypharmacology of G-protein-coupled receptors</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Hajjo
          </td>
          <td>2010-12-01</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1155/2022/4237040.].">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/48cbd887b4ef7e0a81c0771e22576967cf38e556" target='_blank'>Retracted: Mechanisms of Banxia Xiexin Decoction Underlying Chronic Atrophic Gastritis via Network Pharmacology, Molecular Docking, and Molecular Dynamics Simulations</a></td>
          <td>
            Computational and Mathematical Methods in Medicine
          </td>
          <td>2023-12-06</td>
          <td>Computational and Mathematical Methods in Medicine</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1155/2022/4640849.].">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b703523f60961ba983f02a3568650635b680874d" target='_blank'>Retracted: Identification of Molecular Targets and Underlying Mechanisms of Xiaoji Recipe against Pancreatic Cancer Based on Network Pharmacology</a></td>
          <td>
            Computational and Mathematical Methods in Medicine
          </td>
          <td>2023-12-06</td>
          <td>Computational and Mathematical Methods in Medicine</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/234074db21cc720b2506084d5f8bd01f9f92fa08" target='_blank'>Physiological Indirect Response Model to Omics-Powered Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model.</a></td>
          <td>
            Aydar Uatay, Louis Gall, Linda Irons, Shivendra G. Tewari, Xu (Sue) Zhu, Megan Gibbs, Holly Kimko
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-01</td>
          <td>Journal of pharmaceutical sciences</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) has emerged as an innovative approach in model‐informed drug discovery and development, supporting program decisions from exploratory research through late‐stage clinical trials. In this commentary, we discuss the unique value of disease‐scale “platform” QSP models that are amenable to reuse and repurposing to support diverse clinical decisions in ways distinct from other pharmacometrics strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/75fd303e477a32d2844dd2c8a67fced699191fee" target='_blank'>Quantitative Systems Pharmacology: A Case for Disease Models</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Musante, S. Ramanujan, B. J. Schmidt, OG Ghobrial, James Lu, A. Heatherington
          </td>
          <td>2016-11-18</td>
          <td>Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics</td>
          <td>51</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6891c99e59946101257e77b47551ca66c733bd55" target='_blank'>Quantitative and systems pharmacology 2. In silico polypharmacology of G protein‐coupled receptor ligands via network‐based approaches</a></td>
          <td>
            Zengrui Wu, Weiqiang Lu, Weiwei Yu, Tianduanyi Wang, Weihua Li, Guixia Liu, Hankun Zhang, Xiufeng Pang, Jin Huang, Mingyao Liu, F. Cheng, Yun Tang
          </td>
          <td>2017-11-10</td>
          <td>Pharmacological Research</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Immunotherapy has shown great potential in the treatment of cancer; however, only a fraction of patients respond to treatment, and many experience autoimmune‐related side effects. The pharmaceutical industry has relied on mathematical models to study the behavior of candidate drugs and more recently, complex, whole‐body, quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) models have become increasingly popular for discovery and development. QSP modeling has the potential to discover novel predictive biomarkers as well as test the efficacy of treatment plans and combination therapies through virtual clinical trials. In this work, we present a QSP modeling platform for immuno‐oncology (IO) that incorporates detailed mechanisms for important immune interactions. This modular platform allows for the construction of QSP models of IO with varying degrees of complexity based on the research questions. Finally, we demonstrate the use of the platform through two example applications of immune checkpoint therapy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/750c1aa4fc2f364ea1febcf5761c49bd89bc2f93" target='_blank'>QSP‐IO: A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Toolbox for Mechanistic Multiscale Modeling for Immuno‐Oncology Applications</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Sové, M. Jafarnejad, Chen Zhao, Hanwen Wang, Huilin Ma, A. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-02</td>
          <td>CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology</td>
          <td>39</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c4338e9855dc2edc8bb8ae0287843f73c1ee151" target='_blank'>Discovery of novel selective PI3Kγ inhibitors through combining machine learning-based virtual screening with multiple protein structures and bio-evaluation</a></td>
          <td>
            Jingyu Zhu, Kan Li, Lei Xu, Yanfei Cai, Yun Chen, Xinling Zhao, Huazhong Li, Gang Huang, Jian Jin
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Advanced Research</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) is used as treatment for several autoimmune and inflammatory conditions, but its specific mechanisms are not fully understood. Herein, we aimed to evaluate, using systems biology and artificial intelligence techniques, the differences in the pathophysiological pathways of autoimmune and inflammatory conditions that show diverse responses to IVIg treatment. We also intended to determine the targets of IVIg involved in the best treatment response of the evaluated diseases. Our selection and classification of diseases was based on a previously published systematic review, and we performed the disease characterization through manual curation of the literature. Furthermore, we undertook the mechanistic evaluation with artificial neural networks and pathway enrichment analyses. A set of 26 diseases was selected, classified, and compared. Our results indicated that diseases clearly benefiting from IVIg treatment were mainly characterized by deregulated processes in B cells and the complement system. Indeed, our results show that proteins related to B-cell and complement system pathways, which are targeted by IVIg, are involved in the clinical response. In addition, targets related to other immune processes may also play an important role in the IVIg response, supporting its wide range of actions through several mechanisms. Although B-cell responses and complement system have a key role in diseases benefiting from IVIg, protein targets involved in such processes are not necessarily the same in those diseases. Therefore, IVIg appeared to have a pleiotropic effect that may involve the collaborative participation of several proteins. This broad spectrum of targets and ‘non-specificity’ of IVIg could be key to its efficacy in very different diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6ad00dddd98df7f6f73eaf2590f07560a1de3655" target='_blank'>Systems biology and artificial intelligence analysis highlights the pleiotropic effect of IVIg therapy in autoimmune diseases with a predominant role on B cells and complement system</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Segú-Vergés, S. Caño, Elisabeth Calderón‐Gómez, H. Bartra, Teresa Sardon, S. Kaveri, J. Terencio
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-30</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Immunology</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bdba71c8198592733c2f3c0e94873428e96682cb" target='_blank'>Advancing therapies for viral infections using mechanistic computational models of the dynamic interplay between the virus and host immune response</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Zarnitsyna, J. F. Gianlupi, A. Hagar, T. Sego, J. Glazier
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-24</td>
          <td>Current Opinion in Virology</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Low drug productivity has been a significant problem of the pharmaceutical industry for several decades even though numerous novel technologies were introduced during this period. Currently pharmacologic dogma, "single drug, single target, single disease", is at the root of the lack of drug productivity. From a systems biology viewpoint, network pharmacology has been proposed to complement the established guiding pharmacologic approaches. The rationale for network pharmacology as a major component of drug discovery and development is that a disease can be caused by perturbation of the disease-causing network and a drug may be designed to interact with multiple targets for modulation of such a network from the disease status toward normal status. Therefore, network pharmacology has been applied to guide and assist in drug repositioning. Drugs exerting their therapeutic effects may directly target disease-associated proteins, but they may also modulate the pathways involved in the pathological process. In this review, we discuss the progresses and prospects in network pharmacology, focusing on drug off-targets discovery, disease-associated protein identification, and pathway analysis for elucidating relationships between drug targets and disease-associated proteins.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c01918b4e2ebbd2ab78c1e5c4d399d0e217ea6b4" target='_blank'>Drug Repositioning Through Network Pharmacology.</a></td>
          <td>
            Hao Ye, Jia Wei, Kailin Tang, R. Feuers, H. Hong
          </td>
          <td>2016-11-30</td>
          <td>Current topics in medicinal chemistry</td>
          <td>71</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Over the past decade we have seen a shift in cancer therapy from broadly cytotoxic drugs to molecular therapies targeting “driver” mutations. Although targeted therapy has seen great success for some cancers (e.g. imatinib for leukemia), it has struggled with poor efficacy in treating other cancers that can sometimes possess multiple “driver” mutations. This highlights the complex, and at times non-intuitive, interplay between multiple players in a signaling cascade, which can be highly dependent on the biological context – that is, gene expression levels and mutational architecture – of a tumor or cell line. A quantitative, mechanistic, biologically-tailored understanding of how these signaling dynamics drive proliferation and death could improve precision pharmacology approaches to treat cancer. Here, we constructed the first highly detailed, large-scale ordinary differential equation (ODE) mechanistic mathematical model depicting the most commonly mutated cancer signaling pathways across human cancers, as indicated by a pan-cancer analysis by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). The model includes the RTK/Ras/MAPK, PI3K/AKT/mTOR, CDK/RB cell cycle, p53/MDM2 DNA damage response, and BCL/Caspases apoptosis pathways. The adjustable parameters of the model can be informed by measurements from patients or cell lines, including copy number alterations, mutations, and gene expression levels. This single-cell model links stochastic gene expression processes to quantitative signaling dynamics, and once tailored to a biological context can be used to simulate the effect of various anti-cancer therapies on cell fate behavior such as proliferation and death for a population of cells. The first instance of the model integrated genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data from the MCF10A cell line, a non-transformed cell line with predictable phenotypic behaviors. We trained the model using western blot and flow cytometry experiments to refine various biochemical parameters and phenotypic outcomes. Many fundamental questions in signal transduction arose during this process, such as how EGF and insulin synergize to drive S-phase entry or how a specific biological context confers sensitivity or resistance to inhibitors of the ERK and AKT pathways. Simultaneously, we are tailoring the model to patient-derived genetic information from primary glioblastoma tumors and screening brain-penetrable compounds in a patient-specific manner. In conclusion, a quantitative, mechanistic, biologically-tailored mathematical model depicting the major cancer pathways allows us to probe the mechanisms that underlie how signaling dynamics drive proliferation and death in response to various perturbations, and gain insight into their dependence on the biological context of cell lines and patient tumors. Note: This abstract was not presented at the meeting. Citation Format: Mehdi Bouhaddou, Anne Marie Barrette, Rick J. Koch, Marc R. Birtwistle. Predicting stochastic proliferation and death in response to drugs with mechanistic models tailored to genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2017; 2017 Apr 1-5; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2017;77(13 Suppl):Abstract nr 1568. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2017-1568">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e7b9460f53b1393fa834eeb46b9c94177968a96a" target='_blank'>Abstract 1568: Predicting stochastic proliferation and death in response to drugs with mechanistic models tailored to genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Bouhaddou, A. Barrette, R. J. Koch, M. Birtwistle
          </td>
          <td>2017-07-01</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7b67c725d14beca01cd9dd910301260fc0dd1397" target='_blank'>Computational modeling of complex bioenergetic mechanisms that modulate CD4+ T cell effector and regulatory functions</a></td>
          <td>
            Ryan Baker, R. Hontecillas, Nuria Tubau-Juni, Andrew Leber, Shiv D. Kale, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-22</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model is a kind of language that quantitatively describes the drug-related outcomes in the form of mathematical formula. Various outcomes can be subjected to modeling analysis if they can be expressed in numbers. Empirical models have been widely and successfully applied in drug development and research. However, a more competitive drug development environment requires more accurate and predictive models in the early stages of drug development. Accordingly, the subjects of PK-PD modeling have been extended from clinical data to preclinical and in vitro data in the discovery stage. More mechanistic and predictive models, such as physiologically based pharmacokinetic and quantitative system-based pharmacology models, are being increasingly used owing to the growing need to characterize drugs more accurately at the earliest. This tutorial briefly introduces the essential concepts of PK-PD modeling and simulation and describes the recent changing roles of PK-PD model for application in novel drug development process.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/84037f8177e963c7dee507e805d965b08b8a1ec4" target='_blank'>Evolving role of modeling and simulation in drug development</a></td>
          <td>
            Hyeong-Seok Lim
          </td>
          <td>2019-03-01</td>
          <td>Translational and Clinical Pharmacology</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Published research articles are rich sources of data when the knowledge is incorporated into models. Complex biological systems benefit from computational modeling’s ability to elucidate dynamics, explain data and address hypotheses. Modeling of pancreatic cancer could guide treatment of this devastating disease that has a known mutational profile disrupting signaling pathways but no reliable therapies. The approach described here is to utilize discrete modeling of the major signaling pathways, metabolism and the tumor microenvironment including macrophages. This modeling approach allows for abstraction in order to assemble large networks to capture numerous facets of the biological system under investigation. The Hallmarks of Cancer are represented as the processes of apoptosis, autophagy, cell cycle progression, inflammation, immune response, oxidative phosphorylation and proliferation. The model is initialized with pancreatic cancer receptors and mutations and simulated in time. The model portrays the hallmarks of cancer and suggests combinations of inhibitors as therapies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/21c2a53533a9cd2563abcc47766892c9c98ff4aa" target='_blank'>Computational modeling of cell signaling and mutations in pancreatic cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Telmer, Khaled Sayed, Adam A. Butchy, Kara N. Bocan, C. Kaltenmeier, M. Lotze, Nataša Miškov-Živanov
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-09</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>124</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>