---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-21 10:41:40 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>A Multiscale Model of Interleukin-6–Mediated Immune Regulation in Crohn's Disease and Its Application in Drug Discovery and Development</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and relapsing disease with multiple underlying influences and notable heterogeneity among its clinical and response‐to‐treatment phenotypes. There is no cure for IBD, and none of the currently available therapies have demonstrated clinical efficacies beyond 40%–60%. Data collected about its omics, pathogenesis, and treatment strategies have grown exponentially with time making IBD a prime candidate for artificial intelligence (AI) mediated discovery support. AI can be leveraged to further understand or identify IBD features to improve clinical outcomes. Various treatment candidates are currently under evaluation in clinical trials, offering further approaches and opportunities for increasing the efficacies of treatments. However, currently, therapeutic plans are largely determined using clinical features due to the lack of specific biomarkers, and it has become necessary to step into precision medicine to predict therapeutic responses to guarantee optimal treatment efficacy. This is accompanied by the application of AI and the development of multiscale hybrid models combining mechanistic approaches and machine learning. These models ultimately lead to the creation of digital twins of given patients delivering on the promise of precision dosing and tailored treatment. Interleukin‐6 (IL‐6) is a prominent cytokine in cell‐to‐cell communication in the inflammatory responses’ regulation. Dysregulated IL‐6‐induced signaling leads to severe immunological or proliferative pathologies, such as IBD and colon cancer. This mini‐review explores multiscale models with the aim of predicting the response to therapy in IBD. Modeling IL‐6 biology and generating digital twins enhance the credibility of their prediction.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/89edceb6395ad6a9a46a561fb37a23bbccd0f06b" target='_blank'>Computational models in inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Pinton
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-05</td>
          <td>Clinical and Translational Science</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex inflammatory bowel disease whose pathogenesis appears to involve several immunologic defects causing functional impairment of the gut. Its complexity and the reported loss of effectiveness over time of standard of care together with the increase in its worldwide incidence require the application of techniques aiming to find new therapeutic strategies. Currently, systems pharmacology modeling has been gaining importance as it integrates the available knowledge of the system into a single computational model. In this work, the following workflow for robust application of systems pharmacology modeling was followed: 1) scope definition; 2) species selection and circulating plasma levels based on a search in the literature; 3) representation of model topology and parametrization of the interactions, after literature data extraction and curation, and the implementation of ordinary differential equations in SimBiology (MATLAB version R2018b); and 4) model curation and evaluation by visual comparison of simulated interleukin (IL) concentrations with the reported levels in plasma, and sensitivity analysis performed to confirm model robustness and identify the most influential parameters. Finally, 5) exposure to two dose levels of recombinant human IL10 was evaluated by simulation and comparison with reported clinical study results. In summary, we present a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main ILs involved in CD developed using a standardized methodology and supported by a comprehensive repository summarizing the most relevant literature in the field. However, it has to be taken into account that external validation is still pending as available clinical data were primarily used for model training. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex heterogeneous inflammatory bowel disorder. Systems pharmacology modeling offers a great opportunity for integration of the available knowledge on the disease using a computational framework. As a result of this work, a comprehensive repository along with a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main interleukins involved in CD is provided. This model is useful for the in silico evaluation of biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets and can be adapted to address research gaps regarding CD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc1b59cbda9a63547cdc28a859ad8c140d010a08" target='_blank'>A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model for the Key Interleukins Involved in Crohn's Disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, E. Asín-Prieto, Zinnia P. Parra-Guillen, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2019-12-10</td>
          <td>The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0b6d19e4a519ae3668404d76c1f20c8c5b12e928" target='_blank'>Multiscale modeling of mucosal immune responses</a></td>
          <td>
            Yongguo Mei, V. Abedi, Adria Carbo, Xiaoying Zhang, Pinyi Lu, C. Philipson, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Nathan Liles, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2015-08-25</td>
          <td>BMC Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>34</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4a929a695c4116ec70335b4b70526531f72a335e" target='_blank'>Application of systems biology-based in silico tools to optimize treatment strategy identification in Still’s disease</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Segú-Vergés, M. Coma, C. Kessel, S. Smeets, D. Foell, A. Aldea
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-23</td>
          <td>Arthritis Research & Therapy</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Clinical evidence supports the combination therapy of vedolizumab (a gut-selective, anti-lymphocyte trafficking drug inhibiting α4β7-integrin) with JAK 1, 2, 3 inhibitors (JAKi) for Inflammatory Bowel Disease. However, the mechanistic explanation for the improved outcomes in Ulcerative Colitis patients treated with vedolizumab plus JAKi remains unknown and even more in Crohn's Disease (CD). In this study we used an unbiased in silico systems biology and artificial intelligence approach to gain a holistic view of the mechanisms that may underpin the potential benefits of the mentioned combination therapy in the treatment of CD.
 
 
 
 The drugs under study -vedolizumab and JAKi- and CD were characterized at protein level by compiling data from extensive literature search. Through it, human protein interaction networks focused on CD protein effectors were generated and used to construct mathematical models using Therapeutic Performance Mapping System (TPMS) technology (Anaxomics Biotech, Barcelona, Spain). Sampling-based methods were employed to assess the impact on CD of the combined therapy vedolizumab plus JAKi and to describe underlying molecular mechanisms.
 
 
 
 Characterization of CD allowed identifying 4 pathological processes (referred to as motives-M) underlying the manifestation of the disease: intestinal barrier disruption (M1), increased innate immune response (M2), chronic inflammation and Th1/Th17 adaptive immune response (M3) and tissue remodeling (M4) and the molecular effectors or proteins involved in each motive. The combination of vedolizumab and JAKi induced a high degree of reversion of the effectors altered in CD (54.76%), higher than the percentage reverted by the individual drugs. Combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy mainly modulated M3, where both drugs mostly converge although by distinct mechanisms, thus providing additional individual benefits. The combination therapy reverted a great percentage of M3 effectors, for example, CCR9 and FASLG which were increased in CD, were reverted (or downregulated). In addition to M3 modulation, the combination therapy also modulated M1 and M4. In M1, vedolizumab is the one that would provide more complementary mechanisms apart from those that already converge in both drugs. Regarding M4, it seems that main contribution comes from complementarity pathways of the different mechanisms of action of each individual drug.
 
 
 
 The constructed in silico models reveal that the combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy could modulate a high array of effectors altered in CD, more than any of the therapies alone, by enhancing the effects of the individual drugs, and provide a mechanistic rationale for employing the combination of these drugs as potential therapy for CD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37afddf4916b5088749544ad27899c601491b710" target='_blank'>P969 Unveiling the molecular mechanisms of the combination of vedolizumab with JAK inhibitors in Crohn’s Disease through a systems biology and artificial intelligence-based approach</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Marín-Jiménez, M. Sierra-Ausín, T. Letosa-Abián, J. Aparicio, C. Montoto-Otero, S. Sánchez-Ramón
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Immune responses rely on a complex adaptive system in which the body and infections interact at multiple scales and in different compartments. We developed a modular model of CD4+ T cells, which uses four modeling approaches to integrate processes at three spatial scales in different tissues. In each cell, signal transduction and gene regulation are described by a logical model, metabolism by constraint-based models. Cell population dynamics are described by an agent-based model and systemic cytokine concentrations by ordinary differential equations. A Monte Carlo simulation algorithm allows information to flow efficiently between the four modules by separating the time scales. Such modularity improves computational performance and versatility and facilitates data integration. We validated our technology by reproducing known experimental results, including differentiation patterns of CD4+ T cells triggered by different combinations of cytokines, metabolic regulation by IL2 in these cells, and their response to influenza infection. In doing so, we added multi-scale insights to single-scale studies and demonstrated its predictive power by discovering switch-like and oscillatory behaviors of CD4+ T cells that arise from nonlinear dynamics interwoven across three scales. We identified the inflamed lymph node’s ability to retain naive CD4+ T cells as a key mechanism in generating these emergent behaviors. We envision our model and the generic framework encompassing it to serve as a tool for understanding cellular and molecular immunological problems through the lens of systems immunology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c15430dfb8414422cf7cc67db6d33838d46f6838" target='_blank'>A multi-approach and multi-scale platform to model CD4+ T cells responding to infections</a></td>
          <td>
            Kenneth Y. Wertheim, B. L. Puniya, Alyssa La Fleur, A. Shah, Matteo Barberis, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-01</td>
          <td>PLoS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="With the advent of effective immunotherapies to battle cancers and diseases, an obstacle in recovery has become the potential side effects, specifically cytokine release syndrome (CRS). As there is little quantitative understanding of risks for developing CRS and the degree of its severity, this work explored a model-based approach to produce a library of in silico patients through sensitivity analysis of cytokine interaction parameters and a Monte Carlo sampling. The objective of producing the in silico patients was to correlate a known grading system of cytokine release syndrome severity and thus design a new formula for grading CRS. Using our CRS grading system as the foundation, this work produced not only a formula which related the in silico patient data to the different grades, but we effectively demonstrated a selective approach to reduce the grade of CRS with sequential cytokine inhibition targets. We achieved the reduction of grades by applying the insight from the sensitivity analysis, beginning with the most sensitive targets. Cytokines IL-1, IL-8, TNF-α, INF-γ, IL-6, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-12 were in turn the best targets for inhibition to alleviate CRS. Using this approach, patient cytokine time profiles in real-time can be related to the CRS grading system and if the grade is severe enough, action can be taken earlier during the treatment to prevent potentially life-threatening symptoms. What’s more, the identified inhibition sequence of the 9 cytokines provides guidance for clinical intervention of CRS.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cdbed3634ba13aed3fc2c3d954812638cfe069fa" target='_blank'>A Model-Based Investigation of Cytokine Dynamics in Immunotherapies</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Hopkins, Yiming Pan, M. Tucker, Z. Huang
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-30</td>
          <td>Processes</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system plays a critical role in protecting the human body against various pathogens and diseases. Understanding the complexity and dynamics of the immune system is essential for developing effective therapies and interventions. Agent-based modeling (ABM) has emerged as a powerful tool for simulating and studying the behavior of complex systems, including the immune system. This review examines the advantages, challenges, and applications of ABM in immune system modeling. ABM captures the complexity of immune cell behavior, spatial effects and stochasticity. It has been applied to study immune cell dynamics, immune responses to pathogens, immune cell migration, immunotherapies and immune system disorders. Challenges include parameterization, validation, and computational resource requirements. Future directions involve integrating multi-omics and single-cell data, incorporating machine learning, exploring multi-scale modeling, and developing user-friendly interfaces. ABM holds promise for enhancing our understanding of immune system dynamics and advancing diagnostics and treatments in immunology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d234c3a3d3e3dfa896bd15157f48d6581b3a663c" target='_blank'>Modeling the Immune System Through Agent-based Modeling: A Mini-review</a></td>
          <td>
            Yousef Jamali
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-01</td>
          <td>Immunoregulation</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11bc72402348f9198a43e78eb74bf93aa40928bf" target='_blank'>Correction to: A Computational Platform Integrating a Mechanistic Model of Crohn’s Disease for Predicting Temporal Progression of Mucosal Damage and Healing</a></td>
          <td>
            Sai Phanindra Venkatapurapu, R. Iwakiri, E. Udagawa, Nikhil Patidar, Zhen Qi, Ryoko Takayama, Kei Kumar, Yuki Sato, Marcelo Behar, P. Offner, G. Dwivedi, Haruna Miyasaka, Ryohsuke Ken Suzuki, A. L. Hamada, P. M. D’Alessandro, Jovelle L Fernandez
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-13</td>
          <td>Advances in Therapy</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Motivation The literature on complex diseases is abundant but not always quantitative. This is particularly so for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), where many molecular pathways are qualitatively well described but this information cannot be used in traditional quantitative mathematical models employed in drug development. We propose the elaboration and validation of a logic network for IBD able to capture the information available in the literature that will facilitate the identification/validation of therapeutic targets. Results In this article, we propose a logic model for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) which consists of 43 nodes and 298 qualitative interactions. The model presented is able to describe the pathogenic mechanisms of the disorder and qualitatively describes the characteristic chronic inflammation. A perturbation analysis performed on the IBD network indicates that the model is robust. Also, as described in clinical trials, a simulation of anti-TNFα, anti-IL2 and Granulocyte and Monocyte Apheresis showed a decrease in the Metalloproteinases node (MMPs), which means a decrease in tissue damage. In contrast, as clinical trials have demonstrated, a simulation of anti-IL17 and anti-IFNγ or IL10 overexpression therapy did not show any major change in MMPs expression, as corresponds to a failed therapy. The model proved to be a promising in silico tool for the evaluation of potential therapeutic targets, the identification of new IBD biomarkers, the integration of IBD polymorphisms to anticipate responders and non-responders and can be reduced and transformed in quantitative model/s.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c655f04a31d1dc93671152d749f2e63985c7bf3" target='_blank'>A systems pharmacology model for inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, Leire Ruiz-Cerdá, I. Irurzun-Arana, I. González-García, A. Vermeulen, J. Gómez-Mantilla, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2018-03-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/688bdf93e0b5923c287709c96a57a560ed30bee9" target='_blank'>A systems approach to dissecting immunity and inflammation.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Aderem, Kelly D. Smith
          </td>
          <td>2004-02-01</td>
          <td>Seminars in immunology</td>
          <td>77</td>
          <td>98</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systems biology is an approach that marries complimentary disciplines, encouraging the use of quantitative methods to help define, explain, and predict biological processes. By building computational models of biological systems, we can pose new biologically motivated questions and make falsifiable, quantitative predictions. In this thesis I will discuss the cycle of model building and experimental validation, and how it has provided insight into poorly and understood systems and allowed us to predict the effects of perturbations on these systems, which could have real and significant effects in human health and medicine. First, we model the activation of neutrophils in sepsis. By fitting a single model to two sets of data, coming from animals that survive and succumb to the same bacterial challenge, we create a realistic representation of biological variation, showing how a single network architecture can lead to different outcomes. Additionally, this method allows us to identify markers for sepsis susceptibility and identify and optimize a potential treatment option to lead to improved outcomes. Next, we model signaling downstream of the T cell receptor, and how this leads to differentiation decision making in CD4 T cells. By modeling the dynamics of this signaling network under varying antigen doses, we are able to identify network elements critical to dose discrimination, leading to the production of Treg cells following low dose stimulation and Th cells following high dose stimulation. We can then perturb these elements of the network, to potentially fine tune mature T cell populations to alter the trajectories of autoimmune disorders or cancer. Finally, we model the dynamics of IL-17 signaling. This allows us to understand how ubiquitin scaffolds form following cytokine stimulation, leading to the activation of NF-B, and how the ubiquitin editing enzyme A20 acts as a negative feedback regulator by breaking these chains. This allows us to better understand ubiquitin oligomerization as a fulcrum in the system, and how changes in A20 and ubiquitin binding proteins lead to different profiles of NF-B activation and could play a role in inflammatory disorders.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7c5de783dbb55c40e10e29aae4417239bfb08290" target='_blank'>Closing the loop: A combined computational modeling and experimental approach provides novel insights into immune cell signaling systems and their global effects.</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Sheehan
          </td>
          <td>2016-09-08</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract The immune system is a complex distributed system consisting of cells, which circulate through the body, communicate and turnover in response to antigenic perturbations. We discuss new approaches to modelling the functioning of the immune system of humans and experimental animals with a focus on its ‘complexity’. Emerging mathematical and computer models are reviewed to describe the immune system diversity, the cell/cytokine network communication structures, hierarchical regulation, and evolutionary dynamics of immune repertoires.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/84cc5067b6048c367b415023cb486b2bd5b58cfd" target='_blank'>Multiphysics modelling of immune processes using distributed parameter systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Gennady A. Bocharov, D. S. Grebennikov, R. Savinkov
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-01</td>
          <td>Russian Journal of Numerical Analysis and Mathematical Modelling</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Immunotherapy has shown great potential in the treatment of cancer; however, only a fraction of patients respond to treatment, and many experience autoimmune‐related side effects. The pharmaceutical industry has relied on mathematical models to study the behavior of candidate drugs and more recently, complex, whole‐body, quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) models have become increasingly popular for discovery and development. QSP modeling has the potential to discover novel predictive biomarkers as well as test the efficacy of treatment plans and combination therapies through virtual clinical trials. In this work, we present a QSP modeling platform for immuno‐oncology (IO) that incorporates detailed mechanisms for important immune interactions. This modular platform allows for the construction of QSP models of IO with varying degrees of complexity based on the research questions. Finally, we demonstrate the use of the platform through two example applications of immune checkpoint therapy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/750c1aa4fc2f364ea1febcf5761c49bd89bc2f93" target='_blank'>QSP‐IO: A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Toolbox for Mechanistic Multiscale Modeling for Immuno‐Oncology Applications</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Sové, M. Jafarnejad, Chen Zhao, Hanwen Wang, Huilin Ma, A. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-02</td>
          <td>CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology</td>
          <td>39</td>
          <td>69</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="There are many cell signalling pathways that include a higher set of elements. Understanding the dynamics of such systems becomes a difficult issue in systems biology. Mathematical approaches with computational simulations provide a wide range to simplify such complex models and to predicate their dynamics. A powerful technique for reducing the complexity of cell signalling pathways is lumping variables and parameters. In this work, we suggest this technique to reduce the number of elements of IL-6 and IL-10 signalling pathways. The reduced model given in this work provides one a better understanding and predicting some model dynamics, and gives accurate approximate solutions. Computational results show that there is a good agreement between the model dynamics for the original and the simplified models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f0ca0a90866a3e30a6cbfcdfd3daceb9342ac15b" target='_blank'>Minimizing IL-6 and IL-10 signalling pathway elements using lumping species and parameters</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Rasool, Sarbaz H. A. Khoshnaw
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-13</td>
          <td>Physica Scripta</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5f37e215996f1e1c7296914a5903cd1e725986ff" target='_blank'>Modeling cytokine regulatory network dynamics driving neuroinflammation in central nervous system disorders.</a></td>
          <td>
            Warren D. Anderson, R. Vadigepalli
          </td>
          <td>2016-03-01</td>
          <td>Drug discovery today. Disease models</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="One of the greatest challenges in biomedicine is to get a unified view of observations made from the molecular up to the organism scale. Towards this goal, multiscale models have been highly instrumental in contexts such as the cardiovascular field, angiogenesis, neurosciences and tumour biology. More recently, such models are becoming an increasingly important resource to address immunological questions as well. Systematic mining of the literature in multiscale modelling led us to identify three main fields of immunological applications: host-virus interactions, inflammatory diseases and their treatment and development of multiscale simulation platforms for immunological research and for educational purposes. Here, we review the current developments in these directions, which illustrate that multiscale models can consistently integrate immunological data generated at several scales, and can be used to describe and optimize therapeutic treatments of complex immune diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/12af91569188a8022d75595106373d53e8b63a40" target='_blank'>Multiscale modelling in immunology: a review</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Cappuccio, P. Tieri, F. Castiglione
          </td>
          <td>2016-05-01</td>
          <td>Briefings in bioinformatics</td>
          <td>61</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Objectives:To introduce a form of mathematical modeling, agent-based modeling (ABM), and demonstrate its potential uses in the evaluation of the dynamics of the innate immune response (IIR) and the development of possible treatments for systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)/multiple organ failure (MOF). Rationale:The IIR can be categorized as a complex system that responds to interventions in a nonintuitive fashion, leading to difficulty in translating basic science knowledge into effective treatments for SIRS/MOF. It is proposed that ABM is particularly well suited to examining the complex interactions of the IIR and its disordered states of SIRS/MOF. Study Design:Computer simulation and mathematical modeling. Data Source:Review articles on components and mechanisms involved in the IIR. Published results from phase III anticytokine/mediator trials. Published results from smaller clinical trials and animal studies. Main Results:An abstract ABM of the IIR was created. The model reproduces the general behavior of the IIR with respect to outcome and cause of system “death.” Patterns of levels of individual cytokines matched patterns of measured cytokines reported in the existing literature. Clinical trials of anticytokine therapy were simulated and produced outcomes qualitatively similar to those reported in the literature. A series of hypothetical treatment regimes (variation of dose and length of treatment [anti-tumor necrosis factor and anti-interleukin-1], anti-CD-18, and multiple-drug regimes [combination of anti-tumor necrosis factor, anti-interleukin-1, and anti-CD-18]) were formulated and implemented in the ABM. None of the simulated therapies showed a statistically significant improvement in system mortality. Conclusions:Presented herein is an abstracted ABM of the IIR. This model is intended primarily as an introduction to and demonstration of this technique. However, even this relatively simple model demonstrates counterintuitive system responses and the difficulty of effectively manipulating a complex system like the IIR. ABM may provide a synthetic, analytical platform to integrate basic science data on the IIR, thus eventually aiding in formulating and testing future mediator-directed therapies for SIRS/MOF before clinical trials, and it may provide insights into directions of future research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3673c66a1eb6ecea61cd55614fad12d7a17637fb" target='_blank'>In silico experiments of existing and hypothetical cytokine-directed clinical trials using agent-based modeling*</a></td>
          <td>
            G. An
          </td>
          <td>2004-10-01</td>
          <td>Critical Care Medicine</td>
          <td>217</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In the past decade, the emergence of machine learning (ML) applications has led to significant advances towards implementation of personalised medicine approaches for improved health care, due to the exceptional performance of ML models when utilising complex big data. The immune-mediated chronic inflammatory diseases are a group of complex disorders associated with dysregulated immune responses resulting in inflammation affecting various organs and systems. The heterogeneous nature of these diseases poses great challenges for tailored disease management and addressing unmet patient needs. Applying novel ML techniques to the clinical study of chronic inflammatory diseases shows promising results and great potential for precision medicine applications in clinical research and practice. In this review, we highlight the clinical applications of various ML techniques for prediction, diagnosis and prognosis of autoimmune rheumatic diseases, inflammatory bowel disease, autoimmune chronic kidney disease, and multiple sclerosis, as well as ML applications for patient stratification and treatment selection. We highlight the use of ML in drug development, including target identification, validation and drug repurposing, as well as challenges related to data interpretation and validation, and ethical concerns related to the use of artificial intelligence in clinical research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ea860dbc262a06392c95fab765236548fda9892e" target='_blank'>Machine Learning Techniques for Personalised Medicine Approaches in Immune-Mediated Chronic Inflammatory Diseases: Applications and Challenges</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Peng, E. Jury, Pierre Dönnes, C. Ciurtin
          </td>
          <td>2021-09-30</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Pharmacology</td>
          <td>57</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is a complex and dynamic network, crucial for combating infections and maintaining health. Developing a comprehensive digital twin of the immune system requires incorporating essential cellular components and their interactions. This study presents the first blueprint for an immune system digital twin, consisting of a comprehensive and simulatable mechanistic model. It integrates 51 innate and adaptive immune cells, 37 secretory factors, and 11 disease conditions, providing the foundation for developing a multi-scale model. The cellular-level model demonstrates its potential in characterizing immune responses to various single and combinatorial disease conditions. By making the model available in easy-to-use formats directly in the Cell Collective platform, the community can easily and further expand it. This blueprint represents a significant step towards developing general-purpose immune digital twins, with far-reaching implications for the future of digital twin technology in life sciences and healthcare, advancing patient care, and accelerating precision medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6641c34ef9f1144419c9d233fad85729b60ada25" target='_blank'>Immune Digital Twin Blueprint: A Comprehensive Mechanistic Model of the Human Immune System</a></td>
          <td>
            Rada Amin, S. Aghamiri, B. L. Puniya, Lauren Mayo, Dennis Startsev, Kashish Poore, Resa M. K. Helikar, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-12</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The revolutions in biotechnology and information technology have produced clinical data, which complement biological data. These data enable detailed descriptions of various healthy and diseased states and responses to therapies. For the investigation of the physiology and pathology of the immune responses, computer and mathematical models have been used in the last decades, enabling the representation of biological processes. In this modeling effort, a major issue is represented by the communication between models that work at cellular and molecular level, that is, multiscale representation. Here we sketch some attempts to model immune system dynamics at both levels.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d53a65277041949ff080632e0d1f6f7f6dee6a23" target='_blank'>In Silico Modeling of the Immune System: Cellular and Molecular Scale Approaches</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Belfiore, M. Pennisi, G. Aricò, S. Ronsisvalle, F. Pappalardo
          </td>
          <td>2014-04-06</td>
          <td>BioMed Research International</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>34</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="During acute and chronic infectious diseases hosts develop complex immune responses to cope with bacterial persistence. Depending on a variety of host and microbe factors, outcomes range from peaceful co-existence to detrimental disease. Mechanisms underlying immunity to bacterial stimuli span several spatiotemporal magnitudes and the summation of these hierarchical interactions plays a decisive role in pathogenic versus tolerogenic fate for the host. This dissertation integrates diverse data from immunoinformatics analyses, experimental validation and mathematical modeling to investigate a series of hypotheses driven by computational modeling to study mucosal immunity. Two contrasting microbes, enteroaggregative Escherichia coli and Helicobacter pylori, are used to perturb gut immunity in order to discover host-centric targets for modulating the host immune system. These findings have the potential to be broadly applicable to other infectious and immune-mediated diseases and could assist in the development of antibiotic-free and host-targeted treatments that modulate tolerance to prevent disease. This work was supported in part by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Contract No. HHSN272201000056C to Josep Bassaganya-Riera and funds from the Nutritional Immunology and Molecular Medicine Laboratory. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6533733f66c542d395ec6d41c0b1a59550a2e544" target='_blank'>Systems analysis and characterization of mucosal immunity</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Philipson
          </td>
          <td>2015-07-28</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/790e3a8ad8718788e35b3a0fdd34cb22338162ef" target='_blank'>A guide to systems-level immunomics</a></td>
          <td>
            L. Bonaguro, J. Schulte-Schrepping, T. Ulas, A. Aschenbrenner, M. Beyer, J. Schultze
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-22</td>
          <td>Nature Immunology</td>
          <td>45</td>
          <td>93</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This is an exciting time for immunology because the future promises to be replete with exciting new discoveries that can be translated to improve health and treat disease in novel ways. Immunologists are attempting to answer increasingly complex questions concerning phenomena that range from the genetic, molecular, and cellular scales to that of organs, whole animals or humans, and populations of humans and pathogens. An important goal is to understand how the many different components involved interact with each other within and across these scales for immune responses to emerge, and how aberrant regulation of these processes causes disease. To aid this quest, large amounts of data can be collected using high-throughput instrumentation. The nonlinear, cooperative, and stochastic character of the interactions between components of the immune system as well as the overwhelming amounts of data can make it difficult to intuit patterns in the data or a mechanistic understanding of the phenomena being studied. Computational models are increasingly important in confronting and overcoming these challenges. I first describe an iterative paradigm of research that integrates laboratory experiments, clinical data, computational inference, and mechanistic computational models. I then illustrate this paradigm with a few examples from the recent literature that make vivid the power of bringing together diverse types of computational models with experimental and clinical studies to fruitfully interrogate the immune system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/20a550b201bca7f92b1082e67d65992f71783f4f" target='_blank'>A Perspective on the Role of Computational Models in Immunology.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Chakraborty
          </td>
          <td>2017-04-26</td>
          <td>Annual review of immunology</td>
          <td>36</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Agent‐based modeling is a rule‐based, discrete‐event, and spatially explicit computational modeling method that employs computational objects that instantiate the rules and interactions among the individual components (“agents”) of system. Agent‐based modeling is well suited to translating into a computational model the knowledge generated from basic science research, particularly with respect to translating across scales the mechanisms of cellular behavior into aggregated cell population dynamics manifesting at the tissue and organ level. This capacity has made agent‐based modeling an integral method in translational systems biology (TSB), an approach that uses multiscale dynamic computational modeling to explicitly represent disease processes in a clinically relevant fashion. The initial work in the early 2000s using agent‐based models (ABMs) in TSB focused on examining acute inflammation and its intersection with wound healing; the decade since has seen vast growth in both the application of agent‐based modeling to a wide array of disease processes as well as methodological advancements in the use and analysis of ABM. This report presents an update on an earlier review of ABMs in TSB and presents examples of exciting progress in the modeling of various organs and diseases that involve inflammation. This review also describes developments that integrate the use of ABMs with cutting‐edge technologies such as high‐performance computing, machine learning, and artificial intelligence, with a view toward the future integration of these methodologies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/888ee0342cf30a47a191f4582f3b77cea912fd60" target='_blank'>Agent‐based models of inflammation in translational systems biology: A decade later</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz, G. An
          </td>
          <td>2019-07-01</td>
          <td>Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine</td>
          <td>22</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 The aim of this project is to model Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD) progression using an innovative approach that considers the manifestation of the disease from a dynamic and multifactorial point of view, with a focus on model explainability.
 
 
 
 With the aim of modelling the course of IBD in the study population of the UR-CARE registry, an innovative approach will be applied consisting of the combined use of two different data-driven Artificial Intelligence techniques, namely dynamic Bayesian networks and Process Mining. Specifically, these two approaches will be jointly used to model IBD progression trajectories, providing a broader overview of the disease through the description of its patterns of progression (including clinical events, treatments and/or outcomes) and the interactions between clinical variables. The potential of the proposed methodology to address the predictive needs of chronic IBD progression, such as the forecasting of the next relapse, the effect of a therapy, or the impact of a risk factor, will also be explored.
 
 
 
 On the one side, IBD patients experience constant uncertainty regarding disease progression, while clinicians, on the other hand, need tools that can support them in understanding the multidimensionality of disease progression. In this scenario, AI can be the key to successfully satisfy these needs, effectively investigating the disease processes, allowing to describe pathological evolution over time, handling and capturing patients’ inter-variability, and providing tools to forecast disease evolution. By adopting an ad-hoc developed analytic approach, this project can help in better understanding IBD mechanisms and best care strategies, defining the relationships among the patient characteristics and the sequence of experienced clinical events, evaluating the impact of key elements on disease’s prognosis. These results would be useful not only to better manage the disease from a clinical and care point of view, but also in economic terms.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c9f05d40c9251072474dc926cd10de52d0222352" target='_blank'>IIS Registry Grant Modelling Inflammatory Bowel Diseases trajectories combining dynamic, multifactorial, Artificial Intelligence-based approaches</a></td>
          <td>
            R. I. Comoretto, E. Tavazzi, M. Martinato, D. Azzolina
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a044c589e6f5f2b20143495b590c29e0f1ed286a" target='_blank'>The development of a fully-integrated immune response model (FIRM) simulator of the immune response through integration of multiple subset models</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Palsson, T. Hickling, E. Bradshaw-Pierce, Michael Zager, K. Jooss, Peter O'Brien, M. Spilker, B. Palsson, P. Vicini
          </td>
          <td>2013-09-28</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>69</td>
          <td>142</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The COVID-19 pandemic significantly transformed the field of mathematical modeling in immunology. International collaboration among numerous research groups yielded a substantial amount of experimental data, which greatly facilitated model validation and led to the development of new mathematical models. The aim of the study is an improvement of system understanding of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection based on the development of a modular mathematical model which provides a foundation for further research on host-pathogen interactions. We utilized the open-source BioUML platform to develop a model using ordinary, delay and stochastic differential equations. The model was validated using experimental data from middle-aged individuals with moderate COVID-19 progression, including measurements of viral load, antibodies, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and interleukin-6 levels. Parameter optimization and sensitivity analysis were conducted to refine the model’s accuracy. The model effectively reproduces moderate, severe, and critical COVID-19 progressions, consistent with experimental observations. We investigated the efficiency and contributions of innate and adaptive immunity in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and assessed immune system behavior during co-infection with HIV and organ transplantation. Additionally, we studied therapy methods, such as interferon administration. The developed model can be employed as a framework for simulating other infectious diseases taking into account follow-up immune response. Author summary Despite the significant progress reached in understanding of COVID-19, traditional methods still struggle to analyze and interpret the extensive and sometimes controversial experimental data on SARS-CoV-2 infection. Mathematical and systems biology approaches attempt to address this challenge by developing mathematical models of the immune response. We aimed not only to investigate the disease at a systemic level but also to provide a framework for further research on host-pathogen interactions, both existing and forthcoming. To achieve this, we constructed a model incorporating both innate and adaptive immunity, as well as cellular and humoral components. This together allowed us to conduct a series of in silico experiments, exploring the immune response across various levels and compartments. The results of these investigations offer valuable insights into the complex dynamics of the immune system and can guide future research and therapeutic strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fba63039c2028ccefcb6ba1155b931e933bffd6f" target='_blank'>A modular model of immune response as a computational platform to investigate a pathogenesis of infection disease</a></td>
          <td>
            M.I. Miroshnichenko, F. Kolpakov, I. Akberdin
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-01</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is a complex and dynamic network, crucial for combating infections and maintaining health. Developing a comprehensive digital twin of the immune system requires incorporating essential cellular components and their interactions. This study presents the first blueprint for an immune system digital twin, consisting of a comprehensive and simulatable mechanistic model. It integrates 51 innate and adaptive immune cells, 37 secretory factors, and 11 disease conditions, providing the foundation for developing a multi-scale model. The cellular-level model demonstrates its potential in characterizing immune responses to various single and combinatorial disease conditions. By making the model available in easy-to-use formats directly in the Cell Collective platform, the community can easily and further expand it. This blueprint represents a significant step towards developing general-purpose immune digital twins, with far-reaching implications for the future of digital twin technology in life sciences and healthcare, advancing patient care, and accelerating precision medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6641c34ef9f1144419c9d233fad85729b60ada25" target='_blank'>Immune Digital Twin Blueprint: A Comprehensive Mechanistic Model of the Human Immune System</a></td>
          <td>
            Rada Amin, S. Aghamiri, B. L. Puniya, Lauren Mayo, Dennis Startsev, Kashish Poore, Resa M. K. Helikar, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-12</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Introduction: Accounting for biological heterogeneity represents one of the greatest challenges in biomedical research. Dynamic computational and mathematical models can be used to enhance the study and understanding of biological systems, but traditional methods for calibration and validation commonly do not account for the heterogeneity of biological data, which may result in overfitting and brittleness of these models. Herein we propose a machine learning approach that utilizes genetic algorithms (GAs) to calibrate and refine an agent-based model (ABM) of acute systemic inflammation, with a focus on accounting for the heterogeneity seen in a clinical data set, thereby avoiding overfitting and increasing the robustness and potential generalizability of the underlying simulation model. Methods: Agent-based modeling is a frequently used modeling method for multi-scale mechanistic modeling. However, the same properties that make ABMs well suited to representing biological systems also present significant challenges with respect to their construction and calibration, particularly with respect to the selection of potential mechanistic rules and the large number of associated free parameters. We have proposed that machine learning approaches (such as GAs) can be used to more effectively and efficiently deal with rule selection and parameter space characterization; the current work applies GAs to the challenge of calibrating a complex ABM to a specific data set, while preserving biological heterogeneity reflected in the range and variance of the data. This project uses a GA to augment the rule-set for a previously validated ABM of acute systemic inflammation, the Innate Immune Response ABM (IIRABM) to clinical time series data of systemic cytokine levels from a population of burn patients. The genome for the GA is a vector generated from the IIRABM’s Model Rule Matrix (MRM), which is a matrix representation of not only the constants/parameters associated with the IIRABM’s cytokine interaction rules, but also the existence of rules themselves. Capturing heterogeneity is accomplished by a fitness function that incorporates the sample value range (“error bars”) of the clinical data. Results: The GA-enabled parameter space exploration resulted in a set of putative MRM rules and associated parameterizations which closely match the cytokine time course data used to design the fitness function. The number of non-zero elements in the MRM increases significantly as the model parameterizations evolve toward a fitness function minimum, transitioning from a sparse to a dense matrix. This results in a model structure that more closely resembles (at a superficial level) the structure of data generated by a standard differential gene expression experimental study. Conclusion: We present an HPC-enabled machine learning/evolutionary computing approach to calibrate a complex ABM to complex clinical data while preserving biological heterogeneity. The integration of machine learning, HPC, and multi-scale mechanistic modeling provides a pathway forward to more effectively representing the heterogeneity of clinical populations and their data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d812cbca9665c47152cf44918c0c78a250b3f048" target='_blank'>Utilizing the Heterogeneity of Clinical Data for Model Refinement and Rule Discovery Through the Application of Genetic Algorithms to Calibrate a High-Dimensional Agent-Based Model of Systemic Inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            Chase Cockrell, G. An
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-19</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="ABSTRACT Introduction The complex pathophysiology of autoimmune diseases (AIDs) is being progressively deciphered, providing evidence for a multiplicity of pro-inflammatory pathways underlying heterogeneous clinical phenotypes and disease evolution. Areas covered Treatment strategies involving drug combinations are emerging as a preferred option to achieve remission in a vast majority of patients affected by systemic AIDs. The design of appropriate drug combinations can benefit from AID modeling following a comprehensive multi-omics molecular profiling of patients combined with Artificial Intelligence (AI)-powered computational analyses. Such disease models support patient stratification in homogeneous subgroups, shed light on dysregulated pro-inflammatory pathways and yield hypotheses regarding potential therapeutic targets and candidate biomarkers to stratify and monitor patients during treatment. AID models inform the rational design of combination therapies interfering with independent pro-inflammatory pathways related to either one of five prominent immune compartments contributing to the pathophysiology of AIDs, i.e. pro-inflammatory signals originating from tissues, innate immune mechanisms, T lymphocyte activation, autoantibodies and B cell activation, as well as soluble mediators involved in immune cross-talk. Expert opinion The optimal management of AIDs in the future will rely upon rationally designed combination therapies, as a modality of a model-based Computational Precision Medicine taking into account the patients’ biological and clinical specificities.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6fd9bbcc347751dd764acc51b29fd54e388f6bce" target='_blank'>Model-based computational precision medicine to develop combination therapies for autoimmune diseases</a></td>
          <td>
            Emiko Desvaux, A. Aussy, Sandra Hubert, F. Keime-Guibert, A. Blesius, Perrine Soret, M. Guedj, J. Pers, L. Laigle, P. Moingeon
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-29</td>
          <td>Expert Review of Clinical Immunology</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="IL12 and IL10 are two of the major cytokines which control the fate of Leishmaniasis. This paper presents two models healthy state and diseased state which shows how secretion of IL12 is responsible for parasite elimination and IL10 can jeopardize the parasite elimination and promote its survival. Epigenetic modification in the host IL12 and IL10 promoter can decide the fate of parasites. It was observed that reciprocal relationship exists between IL12 and IL10 and that is majorly controlled by a transcription factor NFAT5 from Rel family of transcription factors. By targeting this transcription factor at the cellular level, it might be possible to modulate the release of powerful pro-inflammatory cytokines, thereby reducing parasite survival. The mathematical models developed here serves as a step towards finding a key component that can pave a way for therapeutic investigation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/72a0f3ebbef5532a71dec00a0947ebfa4351b726" target='_blank'>Computational System Level Approaches for Discerning Reciprocal Regulation of IL10 and IL12 in Leishmaniasis</a></td>
          <td>
            Shweta Khandibharad, Shailza Singh
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-19</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Introduction Agent-based modeling frequently used modeling method for multi-scale mechanistic modeling. However, the same properties that make agent-based models (ABMs) well suited to representing biological systems also present significant challenges with respect to their construction and calibration, particularly with respect to the large number of free parameters often present in these models. The challenge of dealing with parameters is further exacerbated due to the fact that a great deal of phenotypic and clinical heterogeneity can be attributed to intrinsic genetic/epigenetic variation manifesting as functional parameter variation. As a result, effectively representing biological populations with ABMs requires dealing with very large multi-dimensional parameter spaces that exponentially increase the computational demands for their use. We have proposed that various machine learning (ML) and evolutionary computing approaches (such as genetic algorithms (GAs)) can be used to more effectively and efficiently deal with parameter space characterization; the current work applies GAs to the challenge of calibrating a complex ABM to a specific data set in a fashion that preserves the parameter spaces required to deal with biological heterogeneity. Methods This project uses a GA to fit a previously validated ABM of acute systemic inflammation, the Innate Immune Response ABM (IIRABM) to clinical time series data of systemic cytokine levels. The genome for the GA is a vector generated from the IIRABM’s Model Rule Matrix (MRM), which is a matrix representation of not only the constants/parameters associated with the IIRABM’s cytokine interaction rules, but also the existence of rules themselves. Capturing heterogeneity is accomplished by a fitness function that incorporates the sample value range (“error bars”) of the clinical data. Results The GA-enabled parameter space exploration resulted in a set of putative MRM parameterizations which closely (though not perfectly) match the cytokine time course data used to design the fitness function. The number of non-zero elements in the MRM increases significantly as the model parameterizations evolve towards a fitness function minimum, transitioning from a sparse to a dense matrix. This results in a model structure that more closely resembles (at a superficial level) the structure of data generated by a standard differential gene expression experimental study, in that there are a small number of powerful causative correlations and a much larger number of weaker/less significant (individually) connections. Conclusion We present an HPC-enabled evolutionary computing approach that utilizes a GA to calibrate a complex ABM to clinical data while preserving biological heterogeneity. The integration of machine learning/evolutionary computing, HPC and multi-scale mechanistic modeling provides a pathway forward to more effectively represent the heterogeneity of clinical populations and their data. Author Summary In this work, we utilize genetic algorithms (GA) to operate on the internal rule set of a computational of the human immune response to injury, the Innate Immune Response Agent-Based Model (IIRABM), such that it is iteratively refined to generate cytokine time series that closely match what is seen in a clinical cohort of burn patients. At the termination of the GA, there exists an ensemble of candidate model parameterizations which are validated by the experimental data;">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ae488adeecaf3fcfbddb196fb41ab5c1ef8bb33b" target='_blank'>Genetic Algorithms for model refinement and rule discovery in a high-dimensional agent-based model of inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            Chase Cockrell, G. An
          </td>
          <td>2019-10-02</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bb188d88b8acb45f48e8e53ea7267381c0b29a26" target='_blank'>Network Approaches for Dissecting the Immune System</a></td>
          <td>
            Hao Shi, Koon-Kiu Yan, Liang Ding, Chenxi Qian, H. Chi, Jiyang Yu
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-10</td>
          <td>iScience</td>
          <td>33</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9567528d3e57d85032a1bc54a9caf8aef234cb94" target='_blank'>Towards systems immunology of critical illness at scale: from single cell 'omics to digital twins.</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-01</td>
          <td>Trends in immunology</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Background Helicobacter pylori causes gastric cancer in 1–2% of cases but is also beneficial for protection against allergies and gastroesophageal diseases. An estimated 85% of H. pylori–colonized individuals experience no detrimental effects. To study the mechanisms promoting host tolerance to the bacterium in the gastrointestinal mucosa and systemic regulatory effects, we investigated the dynamics of immunoregulatory mechanisms triggered by H. pylori using a high-performance computing–driven ENteric Immunity SImulator multiscale model. Immune responses were simulated by integrating an agent-based model, ordinary, and partial differential equations. Results The outputs were analyzed using 2 sequential stages: the first used a partial rank correlation coefficient regression–based and the second a metamodel-based global sensitivity analysis. The influential parameters screened from the first stage were selected to be varied for the second stage. The outputs from both stages were combined as a training dataset to build a spatiotemporal metamodel. The Sobol indices measured time-varying impact of input parameters during initiation, peak, and chronic phases of infection. The study identified epithelial cell proliferation and epithelial cell death as key parameters that control infection outcomes. In silico validation showed that colonization with H. pylori decreased with a decrease in epithelial cell proliferation, which was linked to regulatory macrophages and tolerogenic dendritic cells. Conclusions The hybrid model of H. pylori infection identified epithelial cell proliferation as a key factor for successful colonization of the gastric niche and highlighted the role of tolerogenic dendritic cells and regulatory macrophages in modulating the host responses and shaping infection outcomes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6e22248d3e832f36604aaebfafabe13d41823bd7" target='_blank'>High-resolution computational modeling of immune responses in the gut</a></td>
          <td>
            Meghna Verma, J. Bassaganya-Riera, A. Leber, Nuria Tubau-Juni, S. Hoops, V. Abedi, Xi Chen, R. Hontecillas
          </td>
          <td>2019-06-01</td>
          <td>GigaScience</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), associated with high mortality rate, affects up to 67% of hospitalized COVID-19 patients. Early evidence indicated that the pathogenesis of COVID-19 evoked ARDS is, at least partially, mediated by hyperinflammatory cytokine storm in which interleukin 6 (IL-6) plays an essential role. The corticosteroid dexamethasone is an effective treatment for severe COVID-19 related ARDS. However, trials of other immunomodulatory therapies, including anti-IL6 agents such as tocilizumab and sarilumab, have shown limited evidence of benefit as monotherapy. But recently published large trials have reported added benefit of tocilizumab in combination with dexamethasone in severe COVID-19 related ARDS. In silico tools can be useful to shed light on the mechanisms evoked by SARS-CoV-2 infection and of the potential therapeutic approaches. Therapeutic performance mapping system (TPMS), based on systems biology and artificial intelligence, integrate available biological, pharmacological and medical knowledge to create mathematical models of the disease. This technology was used to identify the pharmacological mechanism of dexamethasone, with or without tocilizumab, in the management of COVID-19 evoked ARDS. The results showed that while dexamethasone would be addressing a wider range of pathological processes with low intensity, tocilizumab might provide a more direct and intense effect upon the cytokine storm. Based on this in silico study, we conclude that the use of tocilizumab alongside dexamethasone is predicted to induce a synergistic effect in dampening inflammation and subsequent pathological processes, supporting the beneficial effect of the combined therapy in critically ill patients. Future research will allow identifying the ideal subpopulation of patients that would benefit better from this combined treatment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3f6ef6912886047b9393178f256296c819291389" target='_blank'>Artificial intelligence assessment of the potential of tocilizumab along with corticosteroids therapy for the management of COVID-19 evoked acute respiratory distress syndrome</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Segú-Vergés, L. Artigas, M. Coma, R. Peck
          </td>
          <td>2023-02-15</td>
          <td>PLOS ONE</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Computational modeling tools have increasingly important roles in our understanding of biological processes. Computer simulations guide experimental and clinical efforts in an unprecedented rate. This study presents ENteric Immunity Simulator - multiscale modeling (MSM) platform developed for high performance computing (HPC). ENISI MSMv2 is designed for modeling mucosal immune responses. The system scales to 109 agents in HPC simulations. This is an important step towards building large scale information processing representations of immune responses that integrate multiple modeling technologies and spatiotemporal scales ranging from nanoseconds to years and from molecules to systems. Our HPC-driven ENISI MSM platform combines the study of molecular pathways controlling T cell differentiation and tissue level interactions between cells to characterize novel mechanisms of immunoregulation at the gut mucosa.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cdf7b2a7f27215028d514af3162b7d31cd411094" target='_blank'>ENISI multiscale modeling of mucosal immune responses driven by high performance computing</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Abedi, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Nathan Liles, Adria Carbo, Pinyi Lu, C. Philipson, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2015-11-09</td>
          <td>2015 IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM)</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The mammalian immune system is a dynamic multiscale system composed of a hierarchically organized set of molecular, cellular, and organismal networks that act in concert to promote effective host defense. These networks range from those involving gene regulatory and protein–protein interactions underlying intracellular signaling pathways and single‐cell responses to increasingly complex networks of in vivo cellular interaction, positioning, and migration that determine the overall immune response of an organism. Immunity is thus not the product of simple signaling events but rather nonlinear behaviors arising from dynamic, feedback‐regulated interactions among many components. One of the major goals of systems immunology is to quantitatively measure these complex multiscale spatial and temporal interactions, permitting development of computational models that can be used to predict responses to perturbation. Recent technological advances permit collection of comprehensive datasets at multiple molecular and cellular levels, while advances in network biology support representation of the relationships of components at each level as physical or functional interaction networks. The latter facilitate effective visualization of patterns and recognition of emergent properties arising from the many interactions of genes, molecules, and cells of the immune system. We illustrate the power of integrating ‘omics’ and network modeling approaches for unbiased reconstruction of signaling and transcriptional networks with a focus on applications involving the innate immune system. We further discuss future possibilities for reconstruction of increasingly complex cellular‐ and organism‐level networks and development of sophisticated computational tools for prediction of emergent immune behavior arising from the concerted action of these networks. WIREs Syst Biol Med 2015, 7:13–38. doi: 10.1002/wsbm.1288">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/258c99c0d7103ddfdc2a837d1d5d4fc4c32f2ee8" target='_blank'>Network representations of immune system complexity</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Subramanian, P. Torabi-Parizi, Rachel A. Gottschalk, R. Germain, Bhaskar Dutta
          </td>
          <td>2015-01-27</td>
          <td>Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews. Systems Biology and Medicine</td>
          <td>86</td>
          <td>117</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Understanding and modelling the complexity of the immune system is a challenge that is shared by the ImmunoComplexiT$^1$ thematic network from the RNSC. The immune system is a complex biological, adaptive, highly diversified, self-organized and degenerative cognitive network of entities, allowing for a robust and resilient system with emergent properties such as anamnestic responses and regulation. The adaptive immune system has evolved into a complex system of billions of highly diversified lymphocytes all interacting as a connective dynamic, multi-scale organised and distributed system, in order to collectively insure body and species preservation. The immune system is characterized by complexity at different levels: network organisation through fluid cell populations with inter-and intra-cell signalling, lymphocyte receptor diversity, cell clonotype selection and competition at cell level, migration and interaction inside the immunological tissues and fluid dissemination through the organism, homeostatic regulation while rapid adaptation to a changing environment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c332120532334ab66de1348ba289da9bc43f684" target='_blank'>Understanding and Modelling the Complexity of the Immune System: Systems Biology for Integration and Dynamical Reconstruction of Lymphocyte Multi-Scale Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Thomas-Vaslin
          </td>
          <td>2014-09-09</td>
          <td>arXiv: Quantitative Methods</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>