---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-20 06:08:02 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Computational models in inflammatory bowel disease</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a complex, immune-mediated gastrointestinal disorder with ill-defined etiology, multifaceted diagnostic criteria, and unpredictable treatment response. Innovations in IBD diagnostics, including developments in genomic sequencing and molecular analytics, have generated tremendous interest in leveraging these large data platforms into clinically meaningful tools. Artificial intelligence, through machine learning facilitates the interpretation of large arrays of data, and may provide insight to improving IBD outcomes. While potential applications of machine learning models are vast, further research is needed to generate standardized models that can be adapted to target IBD populations.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/96a50646bcd4ed63d1897a075a4af13ac4e17de3" target='_blank'>Emerging use of artificial intelligence in inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Kohli, Erik A. Holzwanger, Alexander N. Levy
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-28</td>
          <td>World Journal of Gastroenterology</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Various extrinsic and intrinsic factors such as drug exposures, antibiotic treatments, smoking, lifestyle, genetics, immune responses, and the gut microbiome characterize ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, collectively called inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). All these factors contribute to the complexity and heterogeneity of the disease etiology and pathogenesis leading to major challenges for the scientific community in improving management, medical treatments, genetic risk, and exposome impact. Understanding the interaction(s) among these factors and their effects on the immune system in IBD patients has prompted advances in multi‐omics research, the development of new tools as part of system biology, and more recently, artificial intelligence (AI) approaches. These innovative approaches, supported by the availability of big data and large volumes of digital medical datasets, hold promise in better understanding the natural histories, predictors of disease development, severity, complications and treatment outcomes in complex diseases, providing decision support to doctors, and promising to bring us closer to the realization of the “precision medicine” paradigm. This review aims to provide an overview of current IBD omics based on both individual (genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metagenomics) and multi‐omics levels, highlighting how AI can facilitate the integration of heterogeneous data to summarize our current understanding of the disease and to identify current gaps in knowledge to inform upcoming research in this field.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4ce7ad87d298d804fa5b06fe06196a3d8f7fd6d2" target='_blank'>Inflammatory bowel disease genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and metagenomics meet artificial intelligence</a></td>
          <td>
            Anna Lucia Cannarozzi, A. Latiano, L. Massimino, F. Bossa, Francesco Giuliani, Matteo Riva, F. Ungaro, Maria Guerra, Anna Laura Di Brina, G. Biscaglia, F. Tavano, S. Carparelli, G. Fiorino, S. Danese, F. Perri, O. Palmieri
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-31</td>
          <td>United European Gastroenterology Journal</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a complex and multifaceted disorder of the gastrointestinal tract that is increasing in incidence worldwide and associated with significant morbidity. The rapid accumulation of large datasets from electronic health records, high-definition multi-omics (including genomics, proteomics, transcriptomics, and metagenomics), and imaging modalities (endoscopy and endomicroscopy) have provided powerful tools to unravel novel mechanistic insights and help address unmet clinical needs in IBD. Although the application of artificial intelligence (AI) methods has facilitated the analysis, integration, and interpretation of large datasets in IBD, significant heterogeneity in AI methods, datasets, and clinical outcomes and the need for unbiased prospective validations studies are current barriers to incorporation of AI into clinical practice. The purpose of this review is to summarize the most recent advances in the application of AI and machine learning technologies in the diagnosis and risk prediction, assessment of disease severity, and prediction of clinical outcomes in patients with IBD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/90ee1b0c19c44b6b49338b7a6f75017f261423c6" target='_blank'>Artificial intelligence applications in inflammatory bowel disease: Emerging technologies and future directions</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Gubatan, Steven Levitte, Akshar Patel, Tatiana Balabanis, M. Wei, S. Sinha
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-07</td>
          <td>World Journal of Gastroenterology</td>
          <td>75</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Introduction Artificial intelligence (AI) is expected to impact all facets of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) management, including disease assessment, treatment decisions, discovery and development of new biomarkers and therapeutics, as well as clinician–patient communication. Areas covered This perspective paper provides an overview of the application of AI in the clinical management of IBD through a review of the currently available AI models that could be potential tools for prognosis, shared decision-making, and precision medicine. This overview covers models that measure treatment response based on statistical or machine-learning methods, or a combination of the two. We briefly discuss a computational model that allows integration of immune/biological system knowledge with mathematical modeling and also involves a ‘digital twin’, which allows measurement of temporal trends in mucosal inflammatory activity for predicting treatment response. A viewpoint on AI-enabled wearables and nearables and their use to improve IBD management is also included. Expert opinion Although challenges regarding data quality, privacy, and security; ethical concerns; technical limitations; and regulatory barriers remain to be fully addressed, a growing body of evidence suggests a tremendous potential for integration of AI into daily clinical practice to enable precision medicine and shared decision-making. ARTICLE HIGHLIGHTS Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) show promise for improving treatment response prediction, decision-making, and precision medicine in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In particular, AI could improve precision medicine for IBD by enabling identification of disease subtypes, prediction of disease progression and treatment response, selection of personalized treatments, and remote monitoring. Predictive models can benefit clinicians and patients alike by optimizing shared decision-making processes; patients can also use AI to cope with daily and long-term challenges of the disease. Beyond patients and practitioners, predictive models may positively impact healthcare structures and payers by enabling effective healthcare-resource utilization. To increase the accuracy and efficiency of AI models, biomarkers, patient-reported outcomes, and disease scores should be combined within predictive models, and the outputs should be compared with clinical trial data and real-world data for validation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2835080905d0341827dedcd78db2a0fd8423297a" target='_blank'>Impact of artificial intelligence on prognosis, shared decision-making, and precision medicine for patients with inflammatory bowel disease: a perspective and expert opinion</a></td>
          <td>
            Philippe Pinton
          </td>
          <td>2023-12-12</td>
          <td>Annals of Medicine</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Background Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a gastrointestinal chronic disease with an unpredictable disease course. Computational methods such as machine learning (ML) have the potential to stratify IBD patients for the provision of individualized care. The use of ML methods for IBD was surveyed, with an additional focus on how the field has changed over time. Methods On May 6, 2021, a systematic review was conducted through a search of MEDLINE and Embase databases, with the search structure (“machine learning” OR “artificial intelligence”) AND (“Crohn* Disease” OR “Ulcerative Colitis” OR “Inflammatory Bowel Disease”). Exclusion criteria included studies not written in English, no human patient data, publication before 2001, studies that were not peer reviewed, nonautoimmune disease comorbidity research, and record types that were not primary research. Results Seventy-eight (of 409) records met the inclusion criteria. Random forest methods were most prevalent, and there was an increase in neural networks, mainly applied to imaging data sets. The main applications of ML to clinical tasks were diagnosis (18 of 78), disease course (22 of 78), and disease severity (16 of 78). The median sample size was 263. Clinical and microbiome-related data sets were most popular. Five percent of studies used an external data set after training and testing for additional model validation. Discussion Availability of longitudinal and deep phenotyping data could lead to better modeling. Machine learning pipelines that consider imbalanced data and that feature selection only on training data will generate more generalizable models. Machine learning models are increasingly being applied to more complex clinical tasks for specific phenotypes, indicating progress towards personalized medicine for IBD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7e80321ffdbad16fd298859ec042ad938aef9f00" target='_blank'>A Systematic Review of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Applications to Inflammatory Bowel Disease, with Practical Guidelines for Interpretation</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Stafford, M. Gosink, E. Mossotto, S. Ennis, M. Hauben
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-14</td>
          <td>Inflammatory Bowel Diseases</td>
          <td>23</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="RS The colloquial concept of artificial intelligence (AI) represents a collection of analytic methods that are able to ingest data of any type—numerals, text, sounds, images, or videos—and find patterns that can predict an output (eg, a judgment, clinical outcome, or therapeutic decision). These analytic methods encompass types of machine learning, including support vector machines, ensemble methods such as random forest, and neural networks, with each tool suited for different types of data and situations. AI is neither artificial nor necessarily intelligent, although it can appear so by replicating complex human tasks and interpretations. The availability of data has fueled opportunities that show what AI is capable of achieving. It is very important to remember that AI is just another tool in a doctor’s tool belt; it just happens to be exceptionally powerful when used for the right problem. AI is appealing because treating inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is difficult and requires many laborious, tedious, and time-consuming tasks. I would love to hand off tasks such as reviewing laboratory results for evidence of medication toxicity or efficacy, watching capsule endoscopy videos to look for ulcers, and grading endoscopic severity as a central reviewer, and these tasks need to be done competently, reliably, and fast, which AI can do. In addition, doctors often do not have the luxury of opening textbooks to figure out what to do or have complete confidence that a course of therapy will be helpful. They Ryan W. Stidham, MD, MS Associate Professor Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center Department of Internal Medicine Department of Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics University of Michigan Ann Arbor, Michigan">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ac7ad4ee9b57d3d33aba0ec779c38348a92eb0b7" target='_blank'>Artificial Intelligence in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Stidham
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-01</td>
          <td>Gastroenterology & hepatology</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Introduction Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are immune-mediated conditions that are increasing in incidence and prevalence worldwide. Their assessment and monitoring are becoming increasingly important, though complex. The best disease control is achieved through tight monitoring of objective inflammatory parameters (such as serum and stool inflammatory markers), cross-sectional imaging and endoscopic assessment. Considering the complexity of the information obtained throughout a patient’s journey, artificial intelligence (AI) provides an ideal adjunct to existing tools to help diagnose, monitor and predict the course of disease of patients with IBD. Therefore, we propose a scoping review assessing AI’s role in diagnosis, monitoring and prognostication tools in patients with IBD. We aim to detect gaps in the literature and address them in future research endeavours. Methods and analysis We will search electronic databases, including Medline, Embase, Cochrane CENTRAL, CINAHL Complete, Web of Science and IEEE Xplore. Two reviewers will independently screen the abstracts and titles first and then perform the full-text review. A third reviewer will resolve any conflict. We will include both observational studies and clinical trials. Study characteristics will be extracted using a data extraction form. The extracted data will be summarised in a tabular format, following the imaging modality theme and the study outcome assessed. The results will have an accompanying narrative review. Ethics and dissemination Considering the nature of the project, ethical review by an institutional review board is not required. The data will be presented at academic conferences, and the final product will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/17ec8fd9e1d27ab210c344af992a7e3639265e9c" target='_blank'>Role of artificial intelligence in imaging and endoscopy for the diagnosis, monitoring and prognostication of inflammatory bowel disease: a scoping review protocol</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Chavannes, Lynn Kysh, Mariangela Allocca, N. Krugliak Cleveland, M. Dolinger, Tom S Robbins, David T. Rubin, S. Sagami, B. Verstockt, Kerri L Novak
          </td>
          <td>2023-12-01</td>
          <td>BMJ Open Gastroenterology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease encompasses Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis and is characterized by uncontrolled, relapsing, and remitting course of inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. Artificial intelligence represents a new era within the field of gastroenterology, and the amount of research surrounding artificial intelligence in patients with inflammatory bowel disease is on the rise. As clinical trial outcomes and treatment targets evolve in inflammatory bowel disease, artificial intelligence may prove as a valuable tool for providing accurate, consistent, and reproducible evaluations of endoscopic appearance and histologic activity, thereby optimizing the diagnosis process and identifying disease severity. Furthermore, as the applications of artificial intelligence for inflammatory bowel disease continue to expand, they may present an ideal opportunity for improving disease management by predicting treatment response to biologic therapies and for refining the standard of care by setting the basis for future treatment personalization and cost reduction. The purpose of this review is to provide an overview of the unmet needs in the management of inflammatory bowel disease in clinical practice and how artificial intelligence tools can address these gaps to transform patient care.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9cbadc4940ca547e9ff6e90a8782b65558d63098" target='_blank'>Artificial intelligence in inflammatory bowel disease: implications for clinical practice and future directions</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Ahmad, J. East, R. Panaccione, S. Travis, J. Canavan, K. Usiskin, Michael F. Byrne
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-20</td>
          <td>Intestinal Research</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>95</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Our objective was to review and exemplify how selected applications of artificial intelligence (AI) might facilitate and improve inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) care and to identify gaps for future work in this field. IBD is highly complex and associated with significant variation in care and outcomes. The application of AI to IBD has the potential to reduce variation in healthcare delivery and improve quality of care. AI refers to the ability of machines to mimic human intelligence. The range of AI's ability to perform tasks that would normally require human intelligence varies from prediction to complex decision‐making that more closely resembles human thought. Clinical applications of AI have been applied to study pathogenesis, diagnosis, and patient prognosis in IBD. Despite these advancements, AI in IBD is in its early development and has tremendous potential to transform future care.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8af3be5ea9089a55c36b64ef58358cf2bac9b2e1" target='_blank'>Clinical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning‐based methods in inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Cohen-Mekelburg, Sameer K Berry, R. Stidham, Ji Zhu, A. Waljee
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), comprising Crohn disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), is a prototypical complex disease that has been considered a significant healthcare burden in the healthcare system of Western countries. Considered as one major form of AI, machine learning (ML) is an application that performs repeated iterations of models progressively improving the performance of a specific task by adapting several methods including random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), longitudinal regression (LR), and elastic net regularized generalized linear model. ML has been used in several clinical studies comprising IBD patients to determine the differential diagnosis of IBD, to assess IBD, and to predict the response and clinical outcomes of medications used to treat IBD. However, ML-assisted diagnostic or predictive measures for the daily medical care of IBD patients has not been applied yet. Here, we briefly reviewed some representative studies and subsequently addressed the challenges and opportunities of AI in the medical care of IBD patients.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fa826aac74e73b7acb7c3fdbf405cfdbff9dadef" target='_blank'>Artificial intelligence in inflammatory bowel disease: current status and opportunities</a></td>
          <td>
            Ji Li, J. Qian
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-02</td>
          <td>Chinese Medical Journal</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>