---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-27 06:08:03 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Inflammatory Bowel Disease: How Effective Is TNF-α Suppression?</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease, is a chronic inflammatory disorder that results in ulcers of the colon and rectum without known etiology.Ulcerative colitis causes a huge public health care burden particularly in developed countries.Many studies suggest that ulcerative colitis results from an abnormal immune response against components of commensal microbiota in genetically susceptible individuals.However, understanding of the disease mechanisms at cellular and molecular levels remains largely elusive.In this paper, a network model is developed based on our previous study and computer simulations are performed using an agent-based network modeling to elucidate the dynamics of immune response in ulcerative colitis progression.Our modeling study identifies several important positive feedback loops as a driving force for ulcerative colitis initiation and progression.The results demonstrate that although immune response in ulcerative colitis patients is dominated by anti-inflammatory/regulatory cells such as alternatively activated macrophages and type Ⅱ natural killer T cells, proinflammatory cells including classically activated macrophages, T helper 1 and T helper 17 cells, and their secreted cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-12, interleukin-23, interleukin-17 and interferon-γ remain at certain levels (lower than those in Crohn's disease, another inflammatory bowel disease).Long-term exposure to these proinflammatory components, causes mucosal tissue damage persistently, leading to ulcerative colitis.Our simulation results are qualitatively in agreement with clinical and laboratory measurements, offering novel insight into the disease mechanisms.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/78e59dd74ab5b9b66ead438b5b446f397142aed6" target='_blank'>Agent-Based Network Modeling Study of Immune Responses in Progression of Ulcerative Colitis</a></td>
          <td>
            Dao-rong Wu, Hai-shan Yu, J. Liao
          </td>
          <td>2018-04-27</td>
          <td>Chinese Journal of Chemical Physics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Motivation The literature on complex diseases is abundant but not always quantitative. This is particularly so for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), where many molecular pathways are qualitatively well described but this information cannot be used in traditional quantitative mathematical models employed in drug development. We propose the elaboration and validation of a logic network for IBD able to capture the information available in the literature that will facilitate the identification/validation of therapeutic targets. Results In this article, we propose a logic model for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) which consists of 43 nodes and 298 qualitative interactions. The model presented is able to describe the pathogenic mechanisms of the disorder and qualitatively describes the characteristic chronic inflammation. A perturbation analysis performed on the IBD network indicates that the model is robust. Also, as described in clinical trials, a simulation of anti-TNFα, anti-IL2 and Granulocyte and Monocyte Apheresis showed a decrease in the Metalloproteinases node (MMPs), which means a decrease in tissue damage. In contrast, as clinical trials have demonstrated, a simulation of anti-IL17 and anti-IFNγ or IL10 overexpression therapy did not show any major change in MMPs expression, as corresponds to a failed therapy. The model proved to be a promising in silico tool for the evaluation of potential therapeutic targets, the identification of new IBD biomarkers, the integration of IBD polymorphisms to anticipate responders and non-responders and can be reduced and transformed in quantitative model/s.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c655f04a31d1dc93671152d749f2e63985c7bf3" target='_blank'>A systems pharmacology model for inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, Leire Ruiz-Cerdá, I. Irurzun-Arana, I. González-García, A. Vermeulen, J. Gómez-Mantilla, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2018-03-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="During acute and chronic infectious diseases hosts develop complex immune responses to cope with bacterial persistence. Depending on a variety of host and microbe factors, outcomes range from peaceful co-existence to detrimental disease. Mechanisms underlying immunity to bacterial stimuli span several spatiotemporal magnitudes and the summation of these hierarchical interactions plays a decisive role in pathogenic versus tolerogenic fate for the host. This dissertation integrates diverse data from immunoinformatics analyses, experimental validation and mathematical modeling to investigate a series of hypotheses driven by computational modeling to study mucosal immunity. Two contrasting microbes, enteroaggregative Escherichia coli and Helicobacter pylori, are used to perturb gut immunity in order to discover host-centric targets for modulating the host immune system. These findings have the potential to be broadly applicable to other infectious and immune-mediated diseases and could assist in the development of antibiotic-free and host-targeted treatments that modulate tolerance to prevent disease. This work was supported in part by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Contract No. HHSN272201000056C to Josep Bassaganya-Riera and funds from the Nutritional Immunology and Molecular Medicine Laboratory. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6533733f66c542d395ec6d41c0b1a59550a2e544" target='_blank'>Systems analysis and characterization of mucosal immunity</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Philipson
          </td>
          <td>2015-07-28</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Clinical evidence supports the combination therapy of vedolizumab (a gut-selective, anti-lymphocyte trafficking drug inhibiting α4β7-integrin) with JAK 1, 2, 3 inhibitors (JAKi) for Inflammatory Bowel Disease. However, the mechanistic explanation for the improved outcomes in Ulcerative Colitis patients treated with vedolizumab plus JAKi remains unknown and even more in Crohn's Disease (CD). In this study we used an unbiased in silico systems biology and artificial intelligence approach to gain a holistic view of the mechanisms that may underpin the potential benefits of the mentioned combination therapy in the treatment of CD.
 
 
 
 The drugs under study -vedolizumab and JAKi- and CD were characterized at protein level by compiling data from extensive literature search. Through it, human protein interaction networks focused on CD protein effectors were generated and used to construct mathematical models using Therapeutic Performance Mapping System (TPMS) technology (Anaxomics Biotech, Barcelona, Spain). Sampling-based methods were employed to assess the impact on CD of the combined therapy vedolizumab plus JAKi and to describe underlying molecular mechanisms.
 
 
 
 Characterization of CD allowed identifying 4 pathological processes (referred to as motives-M) underlying the manifestation of the disease: intestinal barrier disruption (M1), increased innate immune response (M2), chronic inflammation and Th1/Th17 adaptive immune response (M3) and tissue remodeling (M4) and the molecular effectors or proteins involved in each motive. The combination of vedolizumab and JAKi induced a high degree of reversion of the effectors altered in CD (54.76%), higher than the percentage reverted by the individual drugs. Combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy mainly modulated M3, where both drugs mostly converge although by distinct mechanisms, thus providing additional individual benefits. The combination therapy reverted a great percentage of M3 effectors, for example, CCR9 and FASLG which were increased in CD, were reverted (or downregulated). In addition to M3 modulation, the combination therapy also modulated M1 and M4. In M1, vedolizumab is the one that would provide more complementary mechanisms apart from those that already converge in both drugs. Regarding M4, it seems that main contribution comes from complementarity pathways of the different mechanisms of action of each individual drug.
 
 
 
 The constructed in silico models reveal that the combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy could modulate a high array of effectors altered in CD, more than any of the therapies alone, by enhancing the effects of the individual drugs, and provide a mechanistic rationale for employing the combination of these drugs as potential therapy for CD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37afddf4916b5088749544ad27899c601491b710" target='_blank'>P969 Unveiling the molecular mechanisms of the combination of vedolizumab with JAK inhibitors in Crohn’s Disease through a systems biology and artificial intelligence-based approach</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Marín-Jiménez, M. Sierra-Ausín, T. Letosa-Abián, J. Aparicio, C. Montoto-Otero, S. Sánchez-Ramón
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex inflammatory bowel disease whose pathogenesis appears to involve several immunologic defects causing functional impairment of the gut. Its complexity and the reported loss of effectiveness over time of standard of care together with the increase in its worldwide incidence require the application of techniques aiming to find new therapeutic strategies. Currently, systems pharmacology modeling has been gaining importance as it integrates the available knowledge of the system into a single computational model. In this work, the following workflow for robust application of systems pharmacology modeling was followed: 1) scope definition; 2) species selection and circulating plasma levels based on a search in the literature; 3) representation of model topology and parametrization of the interactions, after literature data extraction and curation, and the implementation of ordinary differential equations in SimBiology (MATLAB version R2018b); and 4) model curation and evaluation by visual comparison of simulated interleukin (IL) concentrations with the reported levels in plasma, and sensitivity analysis performed to confirm model robustness and identify the most influential parameters. Finally, 5) exposure to two dose levels of recombinant human IL10 was evaluated by simulation and comparison with reported clinical study results. In summary, we present a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main ILs involved in CD developed using a standardized methodology and supported by a comprehensive repository summarizing the most relevant literature in the field. However, it has to be taken into account that external validation is still pending as available clinical data were primarily used for model training. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex heterogeneous inflammatory bowel disorder. Systems pharmacology modeling offers a great opportunity for integration of the available knowledge on the disease using a computational framework. As a result of this work, a comprehensive repository along with a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main interleukins involved in CD is provided. This model is useful for the in silico evaluation of biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets and can be adapted to address research gaps regarding CD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc1b59cbda9a63547cdc28a859ad8c140d010a08" target='_blank'>A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model for the Key Interleukins Involved in Crohn's Disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, E. Asín-Prieto, Zinnia P. Parra-Guillen, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2019-12-10</td>
          <td>The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Here we present the newly developed ENteric Immunity SImulator (ENISI) that simulates the antagonistic inflammatory and regulatory immune pathways of the gut as individual immune cells interact with and respond to commensal and foreign bacteria. This tool has been used to reproduce a typical inflammatory response to foreign bacteria as well as the immunopathological effects of autoimmunity to commensal bacteria with 10^6 individual cells. ENISI is built on an agent-based model that incorporates spatial effects and randomness of cell-cell and cell-bacteria contact, which can have a significant impact on whether a triggered inflammatory cascade is successfully regulated or spirals out of control. Preliminary simulations indicate the importance of cell density and epithelial cell-mediated recruitment in determining gut immunopathology. In addition, such representation allows emergent properties such as changes in bacterial demographics and evolution as a result of interaction with host immune cells. This tool will be useful to i) test the plausibility of in vitro observed immune cell responses as explanations for tissue-level damage, ii) propose mechanisms not yet tested in vitro that could explain tissue-level phenomenon, iii) conduct low-cost, preliminary tests of proposed interventions/ treatments for inflammatory diseases, iv) identify specific data to be gathered experimentally in order to characterize mechanisms of immune modulation in the gut.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ac1d9b20e9f5580f0a85140fb3b01997e5b68824" target='_blank'>ENteric Immunity SImulator: A tool for in silico study of gut immunopathologies (166.15)</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Wendelsdorf, J. Bassaganya-Riera, Keith Bisset, Stephen Eubank, R. Hontecillas, Madhav V. Marathe
          </td>
          <td>2011-04-01</td>
          <td>The Journal of Immunology</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and relapsing disease with multiple underlying influences and notable heterogeneity among its clinical and response‐to‐treatment phenotypes. There is no cure for IBD, and none of the currently available therapies have demonstrated clinical efficacies beyond 40%–60%. Data collected about its omics, pathogenesis, and treatment strategies have grown exponentially with time making IBD a prime candidate for artificial intelligence (AI) mediated discovery support. AI can be leveraged to further understand or identify IBD features to improve clinical outcomes. Various treatment candidates are currently under evaluation in clinical trials, offering further approaches and opportunities for increasing the efficacies of treatments. However, currently, therapeutic plans are largely determined using clinical features due to the lack of specific biomarkers, and it has become necessary to step into precision medicine to predict therapeutic responses to guarantee optimal treatment efficacy. This is accompanied by the application of AI and the development of multiscale hybrid models combining mechanistic approaches and machine learning. These models ultimately lead to the creation of digital twins of given patients delivering on the promise of precision dosing and tailored treatment. Interleukin‐6 (IL‐6) is a prominent cytokine in cell‐to‐cell communication in the inflammatory responses’ regulation. Dysregulated IL‐6‐induced signaling leads to severe immunological or proliferative pathologies, such as IBD and colon cancer. This mini‐review explores multiscale models with the aim of predicting the response to therapy in IBD. Modeling IL‐6 biology and generating digital twins enhance the credibility of their prediction.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/89edceb6395ad6a9a46a561fb37a23bbccd0f06b" target='_blank'>Computational models in inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Pinton
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-05</td>
          <td>Clinical and Translational Science</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Background: CD4+ T cells play important roles in orchestrating immune responses, maintaining homeostasis and offering a functional control of immune responses. Depending on the cytokine milieu, a naive CD4+ T cell differentiates into different phenotypes. The T helper 17 (Th17) phenotype remains controversial since it has been identified as an inductor of inflammation, but it contributes to the regulatory arm of the immune response. With the increased availability of high-throughput datasets, data-driven computational modeling built upon a robust conceptual base becomes a powerful tool to build predictive, counterintuitive, dynamic gene expression networks. 
 
 Results: We used a publicly available microarray dataset generated by Yosef et al [1]. to construct a dynamic model of Th17 differentiation. Following data treatment to tailor the data to our 2,000+ genes of interest, our data-driven modeling pipeline used the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) platform to infer a proof-of-concept modeling network composed of 67 genes involved in induction, function, and maintenance of Th17 differentiation. In vitro time-course mRNA expression data was used to calibrate the network using COPASI. Computational simulations highlighted the potential role of IL-24 in shaping IL-17A producing responses, and local sensitivity analysis demonstrated that IL-24 is negatively correlated with FOXP3 expression, further regulating the balance between FOXP3 and ROR?t. Moreover, NLRP3 was identified as another potential therapeutic target to treat Th17-driven pathologies. Local sensitivity analyses on NLRP3 highlighted the positive correlation of NLRP3 with IP-10, GM-CSF, IFN?, and IL-17A. 
 
 Conclusions: We established a modeling pipeline for constructing and calibrating data-driven models of Th17 differentiation. Our results highlighted the role of IL-24, SGK1, and NLRP3 as key modulators of Th17 cell differentiation. This modeling pipeline is an example of a modeling environment for building computational models with deterministic and stochastic features to generate new mechanistic immunological knowledge and to identify novel therapeutic targets for human diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0c17703df135ae1f0ed5e0ad742e10f142736385" target='_blank'>Modeling the Dynamics of T Helper 17 Induction and Differentiation</a></td>
          <td>
            Adria Carbo, R. Hontecillas, M. Viladomiu, A. Leber, S. Hoops, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2015-03-30</td>
          <td>MOJ Immunology</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11bc72402348f9198a43e78eb74bf93aa40928bf" target='_blank'>Correction to: A Computational Platform Integrating a Mechanistic Model of Crohn’s Disease for Predicting Temporal Progression of Mucosal Damage and Healing</a></td>
          <td>
            Sai Phanindra Venkatapurapu, R. Iwakiri, E. Udagawa, Nikhil Patidar, Zhen Qi, Ryoko Takayama, Kei Kumar, Yuki Sato, Marcelo Behar, P. Offner, G. Dwivedi, Haruna Miyasaka, Ryohsuke Ken Suzuki, A. L. Hamada, P. M. D’Alessandro, Jovelle L Fernandez
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-13</td>
          <td>Advances in Therapy</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/82fb5faf6d6ee4afa4d9428bfd3f459ab0984469" target='_blank'>Prediction of anti-TNF therapy failure in ulcerative colitis patients by ensemble machine learning: A prospective study</a></td>
          <td>
            Mohammad Hossein Derakhshan Nazari, S. Shahrokh, Leila Ghanbari-Maman, S. Maleknia, Mahsa Ghorbaninejad, A. Meyfour
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-01</td>
          <td>Heliyon</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is composed of many different cell types and hundreds of intersecting molecular pathways and signals. This large biological complexity requires coordination between distinct pro-inflammatory and regulatory cell subsets to respond to infection while maintaining tissue homeostasis. CD4+ T cells play a central role in orchestrating immune responses and in maintaining a balance between pro- and anti- inflammatory responses. This tight balance between regulatory and effector reactions depends on the ability of CD4+ T cells to modulate distinct pathways within large molecular networks, since dysregulated CD4+ T cell responses may result in chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The CD4+ T cell differentiation process comprises an intricate interplay between cytokines, their receptors, adaptor molecules, signaling cascades and transcription factors that help delineate cell fate and function. Computational modeling can help to describe, simulate, analyze, and predict some of the behaviors in this complicated differentiation network. This review provides a comprehensive overview of existing computational immunology methods as well as novel strategies used to model immune responses with a particular focus on CD4+ T cell differentiation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/49f8a70c05a018f439076aed5bb7a39587d26c53" target='_blank'>Computational modeling of heterogeneity and function of CD4+ T cells</a></td>
          <td>
            Adria Carbo, R. Hontecillas, Tricity M. Andrew, K. Eden, Yongguo Mei, S. Hoops, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2014-07-29</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology</td>
          <td>37</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Inﬂammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic relapsing inflammatory disorders that result from an inappropriate inflammatory response to the enteric microbiota in a genetically susceptible host. Because the molecular mechanisms of IBD have been the subject of intensive exploration, we assembled the available information into a suite of comprehensive causal biological network models, which offer a better visualisation and understanding of the processes underlying IBD.
 
 
 
 Biological expression language (BEL), which represents biological findings in a computable form was used for scientific text curation. The curated BEL statements were compiled using the OpenBEL framework 3.0.0. Cytoscape was used to visualise and analyse network properties. The network perturbation amplitude methodology was used to score the network models with transcriptomic data from public data repositories.
 
 
 
 The IBD network model suite consists of four independent models that represent signalling pathways contributing to biological processes involved in IBD. In the ‘wound healing’ model, fibroblast growth factor and thymosin β-4-associated signalling pathways emerged as the main routes leading to epithelial cell proliferation and thus to wound repair. Phosphoinositide 3-kinases and carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule-associated pathways were identified in the ‘bacterial colonisation’ model as the primary pathways modulating bacterial adhesion and internalisation. In the ‘immunity’ model, nuclear factor-κB and myeloid differentiation primary response 88 emerged as the main contributors to immune responses. In the ‘epithelial barrier defence’ model, tumour necrosis factor- and interleukin 1-associated signalling cascades were the main routes leading to tight junction disruption and thereby, to increased permeability in the intestinal epithelium. The scoring of publicly available transcriptomic data sets onto these network models demonstrates that the IBD models capture the perturbation in each dataset accurately.
 
 
 
 This work is a continuation of our approach using computational biological network models and mathematical algorithms in order to interpret high-throughput molecular datasets. The IBD network model suite can provide better mechanistic insights of the transcriptional changes in IBD and constitutes a valuable tool in personalised medicine to further understand molecular heterogeneity and individual drug responses in IBD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ad3789b95779f133e6fb3177487fc1a8274905bc" target='_blank'>P109 Construction of a suite of computable biological network models focused on inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            P. A. R. Castro, H. Yepiskoposyan, J. Szostak, M. Talikka, J. Hoeng
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-15</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohns & Colitis</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is a complex and dynamic network, crucial for combating infections and maintaining health. Developing a comprehensive digital twin of the immune system requires incorporating essential cellular components and their interactions. This study presents the first blueprint for an immune system digital twin, consisting of a comprehensive and simulatable mechanistic model. It integrates 51 innate and adaptive immune cells, 37 secretory factors, and 11 disease conditions, providing the foundation for developing a multi-scale model. The cellular-level model demonstrates its potential in characterizing immune responses to various single and combinatorial disease conditions. By making the model available in easy-to-use formats directly in the Cell Collective platform, the community can easily and further expand it. This blueprint represents a significant step towards developing general-purpose immune digital twins, with far-reaching implications for the future of digital twin technology in life sciences and healthcare, advancing patient care, and accelerating precision medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6641c34ef9f1144419c9d233fad85729b60ada25" target='_blank'>Immune Digital Twin Blueprint: A Comprehensive Mechanistic Model of the Human Immune System</a></td>
          <td>
            Rada Amin, S. Aghamiri, B. L. Puniya, Lauren Mayo, Dennis Startsev, Kashish Poore, Resa M. K. Helikar, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-12</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Despite advances in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), fewer than, 40% of patients reach clinical remission, suggesting that improved response rates may require targeting of multiple pathogenic pathways through combination therapy. However, the rational selection of combination therapies based on patient and pre-clinical data remains a significant challenge.
 
 
 
 Here, we used Crohn’s disease (CD) patient-derived molecular networks as a platform for bridging pre-clinical animal models of combination therapy to human disease. Intestinal transcriptional signatures of anti-TNF, anti-IL-23 or combination treatments were generated from the anti-CD40 agonistic antibody murine colitis model and the murine genes mapped to their human orthologues. Humanized gene signatures were intersected with human disease networks to generate treatment subnetworks and enrichment analyses performed.
 
 
 
 The anti-TNF subnetwork was enriched in genes expressed in myeloid cells, chemokine signaling and NFkB signaling, while the anti-IL-23 subnetwork was enriched in genes expressed in the intestinal epithelium, IL-17 signaling, and cell adhesion. The intersection of these two therapeutic gene signature subnetworks was significantly enriched in IBD GWAS loci genes and human CD inflammatory gene signatures, suggesting that the molecular mechanisms reflected in the pre-clinical model faithfully captures aspects of the human disease. Simultaneous inhibition of these two pathways could result in enhanced efficacy through targeting shared inflammatory pathways and complementary biology in myeloid and epithelial cells to reduce colitis. To test this hypothesis, mice were treated with varying doses of anti-IL-23, anti-TNF, or the combination of both. A synergistic response to combination therapy was observed both in reduction of systemic weight loss and inhibition of local colonic tissue inflammation by histopathology. A set of genes uniquely significantly modulated by the combination therapy compared to either monotherapy was mapped to our human IBD network. Upregulated gene networks in the combination therapy enriched in stromal cells, epithelial mesenchymal transition and extracellular matrix pathways, and adhesion pathways while downregulated gene networks were enriched in IBD disease signatures, M1 macrophages, neutrophils and IFN-γ signaling.
 
 
 
 These results provide a novel, data-driven approach to predict effective combination therapies for inflammatory diseases and suggest that anti-TNF and anti-IL-23 combination therapy may drive more patients into deep remission through impacts on both shared and unique molecular pathways involved in IBD pathogenesis.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/93d6950c50e63c057dc02154fb1a9ca67255bcbd" target='_blank'>P328 In silico evaluation and pre-clinical efficacy of anti-TNF and anti-IL-23 combination therapy in Inflammatory Bowel Disease</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Perrigoue, L. Muniz-Bongers, L. Ong, Y. Chen, L. Chang, K. Ngo, A. Stojmirović, C. O'Brien, M. Germinaro, R. Rao, M. Vetter, J. Towne
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Nowadays autoimmune diseases are widely distributed. More than 80 illnesses are included into this group of conditions. Their causes are not clear exactly, but it is believed that among them are ge...">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c50f121a51b2b86a27796d7837feea546c06f4b1" target='_blank'>A computational study of autoimmune disease model</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Nikolova, A. Markovska, M. Kolev
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-21</td>
          <td>Asian-european Journal of Mathematics</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="IL12 and IL10 are two of the major cytokines which control the fate of Leishmaniasis. This paper presents two models healthy state and diseased state which shows how secretion of IL12 is responsible for parasite elimination and IL10 can jeopardize the parasite elimination and promote its survival. Epigenetic modification in the host IL12 and IL10 promoter can decide the fate of parasites. It was observed that reciprocal relationship exists between IL12 and IL10 and that is majorly controlled by a transcription factor NFAT5 from Rel family of transcription factors. By targeting this transcription factor at the cellular level, it might be possible to modulate the release of powerful pro-inflammatory cytokines, thereby reducing parasite survival. The mathematical models developed here serves as a step towards finding a key component that can pave a way for therapeutic investigation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/72a0f3ebbef5532a71dec00a0947ebfa4351b726" target='_blank'>Computational System Level Approaches for Discerning Reciprocal Regulation of IL10 and IL12 in Leishmaniasis</a></td>
          <td>
            Shweta Khandibharad, Shailza Singh
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-19</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chronic inflammation is rapidly becoming recognized as a key contributor to numerous pathologies. Despite detailed investigations, understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulating inflammation is incomplete. Knowledge of such critical regulatory processes and informative indicators of chronic inflammation is necessary for efficacious therapeutic interventions and diagnostic support to clinicians. We used a computational modeling approach to elucidate the critical factors responsible for chronic inflammation and to identify robust molecular indicators of chronic inflammatory conditions. Our kinetic model successfully captured experimentally observed cell and cytokine dynamics for both acute and chronic inflammatory responses. Using sensitivity analysis, we identified macrophage influx and efflux rate modulation as the strongest inducing factor of chronic inflammation for a wide range of scenarios. Moreover, our model predicted that, among all major inflammatory mediators, IL-6, TGF-β, and PDGF may generally be considered the most sensitive and robust indicators of chronic inflammation, which is supported by existing, but limited, experimental evidence.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cc513390ce27cecedf22f3aa0088f95d90bf4aec" target='_blank'>Computational Approach To Characterize Causative Factors and Molecular Indicators of Chronic Wound Inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            Sridevi Nagaraja, A. Wallqvist, J. Reifman, A. Mitrophanov
          </td>
          <td>2014-02-15</td>
          <td>The Journal of Immunology</td>
          <td>61</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chronic inflammation is rapidly becoming recognized as a key contributor to numerous pathologies. Despite detailed investigations, understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulating inflammation is incomplete. Knowledge of such critical regulatory processes and informative indicators of chronic inflammation is necessary for efficacious therapeutic interventions and diagnostic support to clinicians. We used a computational modeling approach to elucidate the critical factors responsible for chronic inflammation and to identify robust molecular indicators of chronic inflammatory conditions. Our kinetic model successfully captured experimentally observed cell and cytokine dynamics for both acute and chronic inflammatory responses. Using sensitivity analysis, we identified macrophage influx and efflux rate modulation as the strongest inducing factor of chronic inflammation for a wide range of scenarios. Moreover, our model predicted that, among all major inflammatory mediators, IL-6, TGF-β, and PDGF may generally be considered the most sensitive and robust indicators of chronic inflammation, which is supported by existing, but limited, experimental evidence.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cc513390ce27cecedf22f3aa0088f95d90bf4aec" target='_blank'>Computational Approach To Characterize Causative Factors and Molecular Indicators of Chronic Wound Inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            Sridevi Nagaraja, A. Wallqvist, J. Reifman, A. Mitrophanov
          </td>
          <td>2014-02-15</td>
          <td>The Journal of Immunology</td>
          <td>61</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/688bdf93e0b5923c287709c96a57a560ed30bee9" target='_blank'>A systems approach to dissecting immunity and inflammation.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Aderem, Kelly D. Smith
          </td>
          <td>2004-02-01</td>
          <td>Seminars in immunology</td>
          <td>77</td>
          <td>98</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8b24d2482771b58ffbe3f62693eb95f609bab357" target='_blank'>An immunology primer for computational modelers</a></td>
          <td>
            W. Hawse, P. Morel
          </td>
          <td>2014-09-20</td>
          <td>Journal of Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="An illustrative example for the current situation in immunological research is the case of cytokine networks. Cytokines are small protein or glycoprotein messenger molecules that convey information from one cell to another. Various aspects of the immune response are regulated by cytokine networks. Although many details of particular cytokine interactions have been elucidated, practically nothing is known about the behavior of the network as a whole. In our work, we have modeled aspects of T-cell cytokine networks using B method. With this model, we are able to run simulation with B-toolkit and allow us to compare the dynamic behavior of the model to actual experimental data from College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine. Our results show that the use of B method can help confront open questions in immunology and probably in other fields of biology, which, because of their complexity, cannot be addressed by standard laboratory techniques alone.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/78a535cf602f95bc52868aa66422135aea00ef2b" target='_blank'>Case study of modeling immune system with B method</a></td>
          <td>
            Sheng-rong Zou
          </td>
          <td>2004-09-14</td>
          <td>The Fourth International Conference onComputer and Information Technology, 2004. CIT '04.</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>5</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7476e83ce195c024dea3f95a57849aba0f0c654f" target='_blank'>Modeling new immunoregulatory therapeutics as antimicrobial alternatives for treating Clostridium difficile infection</a></td>
          <td>
            Andrew Leber, R. Hontecillas, V. Abedi, Nuria Tubau-Juni, Victoria Zoccoli-Rodriguez, C. Stewart, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2017-05-01</td>
          <td>Artificial intelligence in medicine</td>
          <td>29</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7b67c725d14beca01cd9dd910301260fc0dd1397" target='_blank'>Computational modeling of complex bioenergetic mechanisms that modulate CD4+ T cell effector and regulatory functions</a></td>
          <td>
            Ryan Baker, R. Hontecillas, Nuria Tubau-Juni, Andrew Leber, Shiv D. Kale, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-22</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is an inherent protection system in vertebrate animals including human beings that exhibit properties such as self-organisation, self-adaptation, learning, and recognition. It interacts with the other allied systems such as the gut and lymph nodes. There is a need for immune system modelling to know about its complex internal mechanism, to understand how it maintains the homoeostasis, and how it interacts with the other systems. There are two types of modelling techniques used for the simulation of features of the immune system: equation-based modelling (EBM) and agent-based modelling. Owing to certain shortcomings of the EBM, agent-based modelling techniques are being widely used. This technique provides various predictions for disease causes and treatments; it also helps in hypothesis verification. This study presents a review of agent-based modelling of the immune system and its interactions with the gut and lymph nodes. The authors also review the modelling of immune system interactions during tuberculosis and cancer. In addition, they also outline the future research directions for the immune system simulation through agent-based techniques such as the effects of stress on the immune system, evolution of the immune system, and identification of the parameters for a healthy immune system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/531e74b0531bd285279718e54e6f22b4bffdb427" target='_blank'>Review of the systems biology of the immune system using agent-based models.</a></td>
          <td>
            Snehal B. Shinde, M. Kurhekar
          </td>
          <td>2018-06-01</td>
          <td>IET systems biology</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1d58356935b8ae4ef9e6e55c36b71ef861c96a91" target='_blank'>A systems biology approach to suppress TNF-induced proinflammatory gene expressions</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Hayashi, V. Piras, Sho Tabata, M. Tomita, K. Selvarajoo
          </td>
          <td>2013-11-07</td>
          <td>Cell Communication and Signaling : CCS</td>
          <td>30</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1d58356935b8ae4ef9e6e55c36b71ef861c96a91" target='_blank'>A systems biology approach to suppress TNF-induced proinflammatory gene expressions</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Hayashi, V. Piras, Sho Tabata, M. Tomita, K. Selvarajoo
          </td>
          <td>2013-11-07</td>
          <td>Cell Communication and Signaling : CCS</td>
          <td>30</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/790e3a8ad8718788e35b3a0fdd34cb22338162ef" target='_blank'>A guide to systems-level immunomics</a></td>
          <td>
            L. Bonaguro, J. Schulte-Schrepping, T. Ulas, A. Aschenbrenner, M. Beyer, J. Schultze
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-22</td>
          <td>Nature Immunology</td>
          <td>46</td>
          <td>93</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic and recurrent inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. The elucidation of their etiopathology requires complex and multiple approaches. Systems biology has come to fulfill this need in approaching the pathogenetic mechanisms of IBD and its etiopathology, in a comprehensive way, by combining data from different scientific sources. In combination with bioinformatics and network medicine, it uses principles from computer science, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, medicine and computational tools to achieve its purposes. Systems biology utilizes scientific sources that provide data from omics studies (e.g., genomics, transcriptomics, etc.) and clinical observations, whose combined analysis leads to network formation and ultimately to a more integrative image of disease etiopathogenesis. In this review, we analyze the current literature on the methods and the tools utilized by systems biology in order to cover an innovative and exciting field: IBD-omics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/07cfd2ecf64a7bb7c4f9450a909d9737a93ec2b1" target='_blank'>Systems biology in inflammatory bowel diseases: on the way to precision medicine</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Dovrolis, E. Filidou, G. Kolios
          </td>
          <td>2019-04-03</td>
          <td>Annals of Gastroenterology</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0b6d19e4a519ae3668404d76c1f20c8c5b12e928" target='_blank'>Multiscale modeling of mucosal immune responses</a></td>
          <td>
            Yongguo Mei, V. Abedi, Adria Carbo, Xiaoying Zhang, Pinyi Lu, C. Philipson, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Nathan Liles, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2015-08-25</td>
          <td>BMC Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>34</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="There are many cell signalling pathways that include a higher set of elements. Understanding the dynamics of such systems becomes a difficult issue in systems biology. Mathematical approaches with computational simulations provide a wide range to simplify such complex models and to predicate their dynamics. A powerful technique for reducing the complexity of cell signalling pathways is lumping variables and parameters. In this work, we suggest this technique to reduce the number of elements of IL-6 and IL-10 signalling pathways. The reduced model given in this work provides one a better understanding and predicting some model dynamics, and gives accurate approximate solutions. Computational results show that there is a good agreement between the model dynamics for the original and the simplified models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f0ca0a90866a3e30a6cbfcdfd3daceb9342ac15b" target='_blank'>Minimizing IL-6 and IL-10 signalling pathway elements using lumping species and parameters</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Rasool, Sarbaz H. A. Khoshnaw
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-13</td>
          <td>Physica Scripta</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Various extrinsic and intrinsic factors such as drug exposures, antibiotic treatments, smoking, lifestyle, genetics, immune responses, and the gut microbiome characterize ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, collectively called inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). All these factors contribute to the complexity and heterogeneity of the disease etiology and pathogenesis leading to major challenges for the scientific community in improving management, medical treatments, genetic risk, and exposome impact. Understanding the interaction(s) among these factors and their effects on the immune system in IBD patients has prompted advances in multi‐omics research, the development of new tools as part of system biology, and more recently, artificial intelligence (AI) approaches. These innovative approaches, supported by the availability of big data and large volumes of digital medical datasets, hold promise in better understanding the natural histories, predictors of disease development, severity, complications and treatment outcomes in complex diseases, providing decision support to doctors, and promising to bring us closer to the realization of the “precision medicine” paradigm. This review aims to provide an overview of current IBD omics based on both individual (genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metagenomics) and multi‐omics levels, highlighting how AI can facilitate the integration of heterogeneous data to summarize our current understanding of the disease and to identify current gaps in knowledge to inform upcoming research in this field.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4ce7ad87d298d804fa5b06fe06196a3d8f7fd6d2" target='_blank'>Inflammatory bowel disease genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and metagenomics meet artificial intelligence</a></td>
          <td>
            Anna Lucia Cannarozzi, A. Latiano, L. Massimino, F. Bossa, Francesco Giuliani, Matteo Riva, F. Ungaro, Maria Guerra, Anna Laura Di Brina, G. Biscaglia, F. Tavano, S. Carparelli, G. Fiorino, S. Danese, F. Perri, O. Palmieri
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-31</td>
          <td>United European Gastroenterology Journal</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Clinical symptoms of microbial infection of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract are often exacerbated by inflammation induced pathology. Identifying novel avenues for treating and preventing such pathologies is necessary and complicated by the complexity of interacting immune pathways in the gut, where effector and inflammatory immune cells are regulated by anti-inflammatory or regulatory cells. Here we present new advances in the development of the ENteric Immunity SImulator (ENISI), a simulator of GI immune mechanisms in response to resident commensal bacteria as well as invading pathogens and the effect on the development of intestinal lesions. ENISI is a tool for identifying potential treatment strategies that reduce inflammation-induced damage and, at the same time, ensure pathogen removal by allowing one to test plausibility of in vitro observed behavior as explanations for observations in vivo, propose behaviors not yet tested in vitro that could explain these tissue-level observations, and conduct low-cost, preliminary experiments of proposed interventions/treatments. An example of such application is shown in which we simulate dysentery resulting from Brachyispira hyodysenteriae infection and identify aspects of the host immune pathways that lead to continued inflammation-induced tissue damage even after pathogen elimination.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d95fa8a9091e8ee469d1ee1535064cb80e731604" target='_blank'>ENteric Immunity SImulator: A Tool for In Silico Study of Gastroenteric Infections</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Wendelsdorf, Maksudul Alam, J. Bassaganya-Riera, Keith Bisset, Stephen Eubank, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Madhav V. Marathe
          </td>
          <td>2012-09-10</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on NanoBioscience</td>
          <td>40</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract The immune system is a complex distributed system consisting of cells, which circulate through the body, communicate and turnover in response to antigenic perturbations. We discuss new approaches to modelling the functioning of the immune system of humans and experimental animals with a focus on its ‘complexity’. Emerging mathematical and computer models are reviewed to describe the immune system diversity, the cell/cytokine network communication structures, hierarchical regulation, and evolutionary dynamics of immune repertoires.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/84cc5067b6048c367b415023cb486b2bd5b58cfd" target='_blank'>Multiphysics modelling of immune processes using distributed parameter systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Gennady A. Bocharov, D. S. Grebennikov, R. Savinkov
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-01</td>
          <td>Russian Journal of Numerical Analysis and Mathematical Modelling</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="With the advent of effective immunotherapies to battle cancers and diseases, an obstacle in recovery has become the potential side effects, specifically cytokine release syndrome (CRS). As there is little quantitative understanding of risks for developing CRS and the degree of its severity, this work explored a model-based approach to produce a library of in silico patients through sensitivity analysis of cytokine interaction parameters and a Monte Carlo sampling. The objective of producing the in silico patients was to correlate a known grading system of cytokine release syndrome severity and thus design a new formula for grading CRS. Using our CRS grading system as the foundation, this work produced not only a formula which related the in silico patient data to the different grades, but we effectively demonstrated a selective approach to reduce the grade of CRS with sequential cytokine inhibition targets. We achieved the reduction of grades by applying the insight from the sensitivity analysis, beginning with the most sensitive targets. Cytokines IL-1, IL-8, TNF-α, INF-γ, IL-6, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-12 were in turn the best targets for inhibition to alleviate CRS. Using this approach, patient cytokine time profiles in real-time can be related to the CRS grading system and if the grade is severe enough, action can be taken earlier during the treatment to prevent potentially life-threatening symptoms. What’s more, the identified inhibition sequence of the 9 cytokines provides guidance for clinical intervention of CRS.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cdbed3634ba13aed3fc2c3d954812638cfe069fa" target='_blank'>A Model-Based Investigation of Cytokine Dynamics in Immunotherapies</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Hopkins, Yiming Pan, M. Tucker, Z. Huang
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-30</td>
          <td>Processes</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chronic inflammatory diseases (CIDs), including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are thought to emerge from an impaired complex network of inter- and intracellular biochemical interactions among several proteins and small chemical compounds under strong influence of genetic and environmental factors. CIDs are characterised by shared and disease-specific processes, which is reflected by partially overlapping genetic risk maps and pathogenic cells (e.g., T cells). Their pathogenesis involves a plethora of intracellular pathways. The translation of the research findings on CIDs molecular mechanisms into effective treatments is challenging and may explain the low remission rates despite modern targeted therapies. Modelling CID-related causal interactions as networks allows us to tackle the complexity at a systems level and improve our understanding of the interplay of key pathways. Here we report the construction, description, and initial applications of the SYSCID map (https://syscid.elixir-luxembourg.org/), a mechanistic causal interaction network covering the molecular crosstalk between IBD, RA and SLE. We demonstrate that the map serves as an interactive, graphical review of IBD, RA and SLE molecular mechanisms, and helps to understand the complexity of omics data. Examples of such application are illustrated using transcriptome data from time-series gene expression profiles following anti-TNF treatment and data from genome-wide associations studies that enable us to suggest potential effects to altered pathways and propose possible mechanistic biomarkers of treatment response.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/91e070e7e1b299f3a1a5565b1dc2fe5df95c949d" target='_blank'>The SYSCID map: a graphical and computational resource of molecular mechanisms across rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Acencio, M. Ostaszewski, A. Mazein, Philip Rosenstiel, K. Aden, Neha Mishra, Vibeke Andersen, P. Sidiropoulos, A. Banos, Anastasia Filia, Souad Rahmouni, A. Finckh, Wei Gu, Reinhard Schneider, V. Satagopam
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Immunology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>59</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2d783d6ef0a4cd8529a14dd18bc79447f164f305" target='_blank'>On the computational modeling of the innate immune system</a></td>
          <td>
            A. B. Pigozzo, G. Macedo, Rodrigo Weber dos Santos, M. Lobosco
          </td>
          <td>2013-04-01</td>
          <td>BMC Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>56</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammation is a complex process driven by the coordinated action of a vast number of pro- and anti-inflammatory molecular mediators. While experimental studies have provided an abundance of information about the properties and mechanisms of action of individual mediators, essential system-level regulatory patterns that determine the time-course of inflammation are not sufficiently understood. In particular, it is not known how the contributions from distinct signaling pathways involved in cytokine regulation combine to shape the overall inflammatory response over different time scales. We investigated the kinetics of the intra- and extracellular signaling network controlling the production of the essential pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and its anti-inflammatory counterpart, interleukin 10 (IL-10), in a macrophage culture. To tackle the intrinsic complexity of the network, we employed a computational modeling approach using the available literature data about specific molecular interactions. Our computational model successfully captured experimentally observed short- and long-term kinetics of key inflammatory mediators. Subsequent model analysis showed that distinct subnetworks regulate IL-10 production by impacting different temporal phases of the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation. Moreover, the model revealed that functionally similar inhibitory control circuits regulate the early and late activation phases of nuclear factor κB and CREB. Finally, we identified and investigated distinct signaling subnetworks that independently control the peak height and tail height of the TNF temporal trajectories. The knowledge of such subnetwork-specific regulatory effects may facilitate therapeutic interventions aimed at precise modulation of the inflammatory response.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7bbf6cfd05df4146673d86c9504bec0b5ed96876" target='_blank'>Computational identification and analysis of signaling subnetworks with distinct functional roles in the regulation of TNF production.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Tomaiuolo, Melissa A. Kottke, R. Matheny, J. Reifman, A. Mitrophanov
          </td>
          <td>2016-02-23</td>
          <td>Molecular bioSystems</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This paper shows a novel approach to classifying the status of Inflammatory Bowel Disease from vitamin D in children and adolescents. IBD is a phrase used to refer to gastrointestinal system swelling that is recurrent. It is observed that low vitamin D levels are linked with higher risk, particularly colon cancer in people with IBD. Vitamin D can play a protective role on gut health if started earlier in patients with IBD. Machine learning has many advantages in the healthcare industry as it can predict the presence of a condition much before and efficiently and is found helpful for doctors to suggest better treatment to a patient with the assistance of artificial intelligence. This paper uses an open dataset for the analysis of patients with IBD and their corresponding vitamin D level of Serum 25(OH) D concentration. The data is classified based on severity index into three classes as low risk, moderate, and high-risk patients. Tree classifiers, Support Vector Machine (SVM), and ensemble boosted tree classifiers are used for training and comparative analysis is done. Dataset consists of 31 features which include healthy and IBD patients in the age range of 2 to 20 years. The classification accuracy is maximum for ensemble trees classifier 98% and Area under ROC curve is 0.98.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8ace5ff3c60d4a6fd06d05c1547ab5dabcba234f" target='_blank'>Classification and Prediction of severity of Inflammatory Bowel Disease using Machine Learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Madhura Ranade
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-02</td>
          <td>2021 6th International Conference for Convergence in Technology (I2CT)</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is a complex and dynamic network, crucial for combating infections and maintaining health. Developing a comprehensive digital twin of the immune system requires incorporating essential cellular components and their interactions. This study presents the first blueprint for an immune system digital twin, consisting of a comprehensive and simulatable mechanistic model. It integrates 51 innate and adaptive immune cells, 37 secretory factors, and 11 disease conditions, providing the foundation for developing a multi-scale model. The cellular-level model demonstrates its potential in characterizing immune responses to various single and combinatorial disease conditions. By making the model available in easy-to-use formats directly in the Cell Collective platform, the community can easily and further expand it. This blueprint represents a significant step towards developing general-purpose immune digital twins, with far-reaching implications for the future of digital twin technology in life sciences and healthcare, advancing patient care, and accelerating precision medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6641c34ef9f1144419c9d233fad85729b60ada25" target='_blank'>Immune Digital Twin Blueprint: A Comprehensive Mechanistic Model of the Human Immune System</a></td>
          <td>
            Rada Amin, S. Aghamiri, B. L. Puniya, Lauren Mayo, Dennis Startsev, Kashish Poore, Resa M. K. Helikar, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-12</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 CD4+ T cells provide cell-mediated immunity in response to various antigens. During an immune response, naïve CD4+ T cells differentiate into specialized effector T helper cells (e.g., Th-1,-2,-17, etc.), and induced regulatory (iTreg) T cells. Their proper response to pathogens is governed by complex, non-linear dynamic networks consisting of various types of cells and their associated communication mediators (cytokines). The regulation of CD4+ T cell differentiation is a major topic of many post-secondary immunology-related courses.
 However, the traditional lecture and textbook-based learning format in these (and other life sciences) courses makes it challenging for students to fully conceptualize and appreciate the complex and dynamic nature of such processes. We have developed a new learning approach that enables students to build, simulate, and investigate computational models of processes embedded in biological systems. This method is facilitated through an easy-to-use software, Cell Collective (https://cellcollective.org), that makes computational modeling accessible to any student and instructor (i.e., no prior computational modeling experience is necessary). The simulation lessons have been designed to be turn-key, self-contained, and adoptable by any instructor without the need to modify their syllabus, and with a minimal learning curve. They can be used in-class, assigned as homework, as well as deployed as extensive lab investigations. Here, we will present a new modeling and simulation lesson that enables students to learn about the dynamic complexities of CD4+ T cell differentiation, such as the effects of different cytokines and their dosage on the differentiation outcome, feedback loops, etc.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c258dea73b4a905842a3d6461c2e2340c943af54" target='_blank'>Active learning about the dynamic and complex nature of CD4+ T cell differentiation with computer network modeling and simulations</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Helikar, Resa M. K. Helikar, Deborah M. Brown
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-01</td>
          <td>The Journal of Immunology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="T helper (Th) cells play a major role in the immune response and pathology at the gastric mucosa during Helicobacter pylori infection. There is a limited mechanistic understanding regarding the contributions of CD4+ T cell subsets to gastritis development during H. pylori colonization. We used two computational approaches: ordinary differential equation (ODE)-based and agent-based modeling (ABM) to study the mechanisms underlying cellular immune responses to H. pylori and how CD4+ T cell subsets influenced initiation, progression and outcome of disease. To calibrate the model, in vivo experimentation was performed by infecting C57BL/6 mice intragastrically with H. pylori and assaying immune cell subsets in the stomach and gastric lymph nodes (GLN) on days 0, 7, 14, 30 and 60 post-infection. Our computational model reproduced the dynamics of effector and regulatory pathways in the gastric lamina propria (LP) in silico. Simulation results show the induction of a Th17 response and a dominant Th1 response, together with a regulatory response characterized by high levels of mucosal Treg) cells. We also investigated the potential role of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) activation on the modulation of host responses to H. pylori by using loss-of-function approaches. Specifically, in silico results showed a predominance of Th1 and Th17 cells in the stomach of the cell-specific PPARγ knockout system when compared to the wild-type simulation. Spatio-temporal, object-oriented ABM approaches suggested similar dynamics in induction of host responses showing analogous T cell distributions to ODE modeling and facilitated tracking lesion formation. In addition, sensitivity analysis predicted a crucial contribution of Th1 and Th17 effector responses as mediators of histopathological changes in the gastric mucosa during chronic stages of infection, which were experimentally validated in mice. These integrated immunoinformatics approaches characterized the induction of mucosal effector and regulatory pathways controlled by PPARγ during H. pylori infection affecting disease outcomes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/59d3ef429aa9f03424e92bed51bb84c886d81fc9" target='_blank'>Predictive Computational Modeling of the Mucosal Immune Responses during Helicobacter pylori Infection</a></td>
          <td>
            Adria Carbo, J. Bassaganya-Riera, M. Pedragosa, M. Viladomiu, M. Marathe, S. Eubank, K. Wendelsdorf, K. Bisset, S. Hoops, Xinwei Deng, Maksudul M. Alam, Barbara Kronsteiner, Yongguo Mei, R. Hontecillas
          </td>
          <td>2013-09-05</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>65</td>
          <td>56</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Understanding and modelling the complexity of the immune system is a challenge that is shared by the ImmunoComplexiT$^1$ thematic network from the RNSC. The immune system is a complex biological, adaptive, highly diversified, self-organized and degenerative cognitive network of entities, allowing for a robust and resilient system with emergent properties such as anamnestic responses and regulation. The adaptive immune system has evolved into a complex system of billions of highly diversified lymphocytes all interacting as a connective dynamic, multi-scale organised and distributed system, in order to collectively insure body and species preservation. The immune system is characterized by complexity at different levels: network organisation through fluid cell populations with inter-and intra-cell signalling, lymphocyte receptor diversity, cell clonotype selection and competition at cell level, migration and interaction inside the immunological tissues and fluid dissemination through the organism, homeostatic regulation while rapid adaptation to a changing environment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c332120532334ab66de1348ba289da9bc43f684" target='_blank'>Understanding and Modelling the Complexity of the Immune System: Systems Biology for Integration and Dynamical Reconstruction of Lymphocyte Multi-Scale Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Thomas-Vaslin
          </td>
          <td>2014-09-09</td>
          <td>arXiv: Quantitative Methods</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc9a47faecb2a97afec94f6155b36f6276dd942d" target='_blank'>Systems immunology: a survey of modeling formalisms, applications and simulation tools</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Narang, James Decraene, S. Wong, B. Aiswarya, Andrew R. Wasem, Shiang Rong Leong, A. Gouaillard
          </td>
          <td>2012-04-13</td>
          <td>Immunologic Research</td>
          <td>38</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc9a47faecb2a97afec94f6155b36f6276dd942d" target='_blank'>Systems immunology: a survey of modeling formalisms, applications and simulation tools</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Narang, James Decraene, S. Wong, B. Aiswarya, Andrew R. Wasem, Shiang Rong Leong, A. Gouaillard
          </td>
          <td>2012-04-13</td>
          <td>Immunologic Research</td>
          <td>38</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6ed7f8a4abcdabe551cd8ce3581a34ce48ebb694" target='_blank'>Systems biology approach highlights mechanistic differences between Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis</a></td>
          <td>
            P. A. Ruiz Castro, H. Yepiskoposyan, Sylvain Gubian, Florian Calvino-Martin, U. Kogel, K. Renggli, M. Peitsch, J. Hoeng, M. Talikka
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-01</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>