---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-21 10:41:44 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>A Dynamic Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model of Inflammatory Bowel Disease: Part 1 – Model Framework</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex inflammatory bowel disease whose pathogenesis appears to involve several immunologic defects causing functional impairment of the gut. Its complexity and the reported loss of effectiveness over time of standard of care together with the increase in its worldwide incidence require the application of techniques aiming to find new therapeutic strategies. Currently, systems pharmacology modeling has been gaining importance as it integrates the available knowledge of the system into a single computational model. In this work, the following workflow for robust application of systems pharmacology modeling was followed: 1) scope definition; 2) species selection and circulating plasma levels based on a search in the literature; 3) representation of model topology and parametrization of the interactions, after literature data extraction and curation, and the implementation of ordinary differential equations in SimBiology (MATLAB version R2018b); and 4) model curation and evaluation by visual comparison of simulated interleukin (IL) concentrations with the reported levels in plasma, and sensitivity analysis performed to confirm model robustness and identify the most influential parameters. Finally, 5) exposure to two dose levels of recombinant human IL10 was evaluated by simulation and comparison with reported clinical study results. In summary, we present a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main ILs involved in CD developed using a standardized methodology and supported by a comprehensive repository summarizing the most relevant literature in the field. However, it has to be taken into account that external validation is still pending as available clinical data were primarily used for model training. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex heterogeneous inflammatory bowel disorder. Systems pharmacology modeling offers a great opportunity for integration of the available knowledge on the disease using a computational framework. As a result of this work, a comprehensive repository along with a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main interleukins involved in CD is provided. This model is useful for the in silico evaluation of biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets and can be adapted to address research gaps regarding CD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc1b59cbda9a63547cdc28a859ad8c140d010a08" target='_blank'>A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model for the Key Interleukins Involved in Crohn's Disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, E. Asín-Prieto, Zinnia P. Parra-Guillen, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2019-12-10</td>
          <td>The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Motivation The literature on complex diseases is abundant but not always quantitative. This is particularly so for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), where many molecular pathways are qualitatively well described but this information cannot be used in traditional quantitative mathematical models employed in drug development. We propose the elaboration and validation of a logic network for IBD able to capture the information available in the literature that will facilitate the identification/validation of therapeutic targets. Results In this article, we propose a logic model for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) which consists of 43 nodes and 298 qualitative interactions. The model presented is able to describe the pathogenic mechanisms of the disorder and qualitatively describes the characteristic chronic inflammation. A perturbation analysis performed on the IBD network indicates that the model is robust. Also, as described in clinical trials, a simulation of anti-TNFα, anti-IL2 and Granulocyte and Monocyte Apheresis showed a decrease in the Metalloproteinases node (MMPs), which means a decrease in tissue damage. In contrast, as clinical trials have demonstrated, a simulation of anti-IL17 and anti-IFNγ or IL10 overexpression therapy did not show any major change in MMPs expression, as corresponds to a failed therapy. The model proved to be a promising in silico tool for the evaluation of potential therapeutic targets, the identification of new IBD biomarkers, the integration of IBD polymorphisms to anticipate responders and non-responders and can be reduced and transformed in quantitative model/s.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c655f04a31d1dc93671152d749f2e63985c7bf3" target='_blank'>A systems pharmacology model for inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, Leire Ruiz-Cerdá, I. Irurzun-Arana, I. González-García, A. Vermeulen, J. Gómez-Mantilla, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2018-03-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0b6d19e4a519ae3668404d76c1f20c8c5b12e928" target='_blank'>Multiscale modeling of mucosal immune responses</a></td>
          <td>
            Yongguo Mei, V. Abedi, Adria Carbo, Xiaoying Zhang, Pinyi Lu, C. Philipson, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Nathan Liles, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2015-08-25</td>
          <td>BMC Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>34</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 The aim of this project is to model Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD) progression using an innovative approach that considers the manifestation of the disease from a dynamic and multifactorial point of view, with a focus on model explainability.
 
 
 
 With the aim of modelling the course of IBD in the study population of the UR-CARE registry, an innovative approach will be applied consisting of the combined use of two different data-driven Artificial Intelligence techniques, namely dynamic Bayesian networks and Process Mining. Specifically, these two approaches will be jointly used to model IBD progression trajectories, providing a broader overview of the disease through the description of its patterns of progression (including clinical events, treatments and/or outcomes) and the interactions between clinical variables. The potential of the proposed methodology to address the predictive needs of chronic IBD progression, such as the forecasting of the next relapse, the effect of a therapy, or the impact of a risk factor, will also be explored.
 
 
 
 On the one side, IBD patients experience constant uncertainty regarding disease progression, while clinicians, on the other hand, need tools that can support them in understanding the multidimensionality of disease progression. In this scenario, AI can be the key to successfully satisfy these needs, effectively investigating the disease processes, allowing to describe pathological evolution over time, handling and capturing patients’ inter-variability, and providing tools to forecast disease evolution. By adopting an ad-hoc developed analytic approach, this project can help in better understanding IBD mechanisms and best care strategies, defining the relationships among the patient characteristics and the sequence of experienced clinical events, evaluating the impact of key elements on disease’s prognosis. These results would be useful not only to better manage the disease from a clinical and care point of view, but also in economic terms.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c9f05d40c9251072474dc926cd10de52d0222352" target='_blank'>IIS Registry Grant Modelling Inflammatory Bowel Diseases trajectories combining dynamic, multifactorial, Artificial Intelligence-based approaches</a></td>
          <td>
            R. I. Comoretto, E. Tavazzi, M. Martinato, D. Azzolina
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease, is a chronic inflammatory disorder that results in ulcers of the colon and rectum without known etiology.Ulcerative colitis causes a huge public health care burden particularly in developed countries.Many studies suggest that ulcerative colitis results from an abnormal immune response against components of commensal microbiota in genetically susceptible individuals.However, understanding of the disease mechanisms at cellular and molecular levels remains largely elusive.In this paper, a network model is developed based on our previous study and computer simulations are performed using an agent-based network modeling to elucidate the dynamics of immune response in ulcerative colitis progression.Our modeling study identifies several important positive feedback loops as a driving force for ulcerative colitis initiation and progression.The results demonstrate that although immune response in ulcerative colitis patients is dominated by anti-inflammatory/regulatory cells such as alternatively activated macrophages and type Ⅱ natural killer T cells, proinflammatory cells including classically activated macrophages, T helper 1 and T helper 17 cells, and their secreted cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-12, interleukin-23, interleukin-17 and interferon-γ remain at certain levels (lower than those in Crohn's disease, another inflammatory bowel disease).Long-term exposure to these proinflammatory components, causes mucosal tissue damage persistently, leading to ulcerative colitis.Our simulation results are qualitatively in agreement with clinical and laboratory measurements, offering novel insight into the disease mechanisms.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/78e59dd74ab5b9b66ead438b5b446f397142aed6" target='_blank'>Agent-Based Network Modeling Study of Immune Responses in Progression of Ulcerative Colitis</a></td>
          <td>
            Dao-rong Wu, Hai-shan Yu, J. Liao
          </td>
          <td>2018-04-27</td>
          <td>Chinese Journal of Chemical Physics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="During acute and chronic infectious diseases hosts develop complex immune responses to cope with bacterial persistence. Depending on a variety of host and microbe factors, outcomes range from peaceful co-existence to detrimental disease. Mechanisms underlying immunity to bacterial stimuli span several spatiotemporal magnitudes and the summation of these hierarchical interactions plays a decisive role in pathogenic versus tolerogenic fate for the host. This dissertation integrates diverse data from immunoinformatics analyses, experimental validation and mathematical modeling to investigate a series of hypotheses driven by computational modeling to study mucosal immunity. Two contrasting microbes, enteroaggregative Escherichia coli and Helicobacter pylori, are used to perturb gut immunity in order to discover host-centric targets for modulating the host immune system. These findings have the potential to be broadly applicable to other infectious and immune-mediated diseases and could assist in the development of antibiotic-free and host-targeted treatments that modulate tolerance to prevent disease. This work was supported in part by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Contract No. HHSN272201000056C to Josep Bassaganya-Riera and funds from the Nutritional Immunology and Molecular Medicine Laboratory. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6533733f66c542d395ec6d41c0b1a59550a2e544" target='_blank'>Systems analysis and characterization of mucosal immunity</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Philipson
          </td>
          <td>2015-07-28</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Managing inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a major challenge for physicians and patients during the COVID-19 pandemic. To understand the impact of the pandemic on patient behaviors and disruptions in medical care, we used a combination of population-based modeling, system dynamics simulation, and linear optimization. Synthetic IBD populations in Tokyo and Hokkaido were created by localizing an existing US-based synthetic IBD population using data from the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare in Japan. A clinical pathway of IBD-specific disease progression was constructed and calibrated using longitudinal claims data from JMDC Inc for patients with IBD before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. Key points considered for disruptions in patient behavior (demand) and medical care (supply) were diagnosis of new patients, clinic visits for new patients seeking care and diagnosed patients receiving continuous care, number of procedures, and the interval between procedures or biologic prescriptions. COVID-19 had a large initial impact and subsequent smaller impacts on demand and supply despite higher infection rates. Our population model (Behavior Predictor) and patient treatment simulation model (Demand Simulator) represent the dynamics of clinical care demand among patients with IBD in Japan, both in recapitulating historical demand curves and simulating future demand during disruption scenarios, such as pandemic, earthquake, and economic crisis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c2eba10c40af9c8c70960855ac4b2db4f66c0bdc" target='_blank'>Computational Simulation Model to Predict Behavior Changes in Inflammatory Bowel Disease Patients during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Analysis of Two Regional Japanese Populations</a></td>
          <td>
            Gen Suzuki, R. Iwakiri, E. Udagawa, Sindy Ma, Ryoko Takayama, H. Nishiura, K. Nakamura, S. P. Burns, P. M. D’Alessandro, Jovelle L Fernandez
          </td>
          <td>2023-01-18</td>
          <td>Journal of Clinical Medicine</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>61</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic and recurrent inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. The elucidation of their etiopathology requires complex and multiple approaches. Systems biology has come to fulfill this need in approaching the pathogenetic mechanisms of IBD and its etiopathology, in a comprehensive way, by combining data from different scientific sources. In combination with bioinformatics and network medicine, it uses principles from computer science, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, medicine and computational tools to achieve its purposes. Systems biology utilizes scientific sources that provide data from omics studies (e.g., genomics, transcriptomics, etc.) and clinical observations, whose combined analysis leads to network formation and ultimately to a more integrative image of disease etiopathogenesis. In this review, we analyze the current literature on the methods and the tools utilized by systems biology in order to cover an innovative and exciting field: IBD-omics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/07cfd2ecf64a7bb7c4f9450a909d9737a93ec2b1" target='_blank'>Systems biology in inflammatory bowel diseases: on the way to precision medicine</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Dovrolis, E. Filidou, G. Kolios
          </td>
          <td>2019-04-03</td>
          <td>Annals of Gastroenterology</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and relapsing disease with multiple underlying influences and notable heterogeneity among its clinical and response‐to‐treatment phenotypes. There is no cure for IBD, and none of the currently available therapies have demonstrated clinical efficacies beyond 40%–60%. Data collected about its omics, pathogenesis, and treatment strategies have grown exponentially with time making IBD a prime candidate for artificial intelligence (AI) mediated discovery support. AI can be leveraged to further understand or identify IBD features to improve clinical outcomes. Various treatment candidates are currently under evaluation in clinical trials, offering further approaches and opportunities for increasing the efficacies of treatments. However, currently, therapeutic plans are largely determined using clinical features due to the lack of specific biomarkers, and it has become necessary to step into precision medicine to predict therapeutic responses to guarantee optimal treatment efficacy. This is accompanied by the application of AI and the development of multiscale hybrid models combining mechanistic approaches and machine learning. These models ultimately lead to the creation of digital twins of given patients delivering on the promise of precision dosing and tailored treatment. Interleukin‐6 (IL‐6) is a prominent cytokine in cell‐to‐cell communication in the inflammatory responses’ regulation. Dysregulated IL‐6‐induced signaling leads to severe immunological or proliferative pathologies, such as IBD and colon cancer. This mini‐review explores multiscale models with the aim of predicting the response to therapy in IBD. Modeling IL‐6 biology and generating digital twins enhance the credibility of their prediction.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/89edceb6395ad6a9a46a561fb37a23bbccd0f06b" target='_blank'>Computational models in inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Pinton
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-05</td>
          <td>Clinical and Translational Science</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Here we present the newly developed ENteric Immunity SImulator (ENISI) that simulates the antagonistic inflammatory and regulatory immune pathways of the gut as individual immune cells interact with and respond to commensal and foreign bacteria. This tool has been used to reproduce a typical inflammatory response to foreign bacteria as well as the immunopathological effects of autoimmunity to commensal bacteria with 10^6 individual cells. ENISI is built on an agent-based model that incorporates spatial effects and randomness of cell-cell and cell-bacteria contact, which can have a significant impact on whether a triggered inflammatory cascade is successfully regulated or spirals out of control. Preliminary simulations indicate the importance of cell density and epithelial cell-mediated recruitment in determining gut immunopathology. In addition, such representation allows emergent properties such as changes in bacterial demographics and evolution as a result of interaction with host immune cells. This tool will be useful to i) test the plausibility of in vitro observed immune cell responses as explanations for tissue-level damage, ii) propose mechanisms not yet tested in vitro that could explain tissue-level phenomenon, iii) conduct low-cost, preliminary tests of proposed interventions/ treatments for inflammatory diseases, iv) identify specific data to be gathered experimentally in order to characterize mechanisms of immune modulation in the gut.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ac1d9b20e9f5580f0a85140fb3b01997e5b68824" target='_blank'>ENteric Immunity SImulator: A tool for in silico study of gut immunopathologies (166.15)</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Wendelsdorf, J. Bassaganya-Riera, Keith Bisset, Stephen Eubank, R. Hontecillas, Madhav V. Marathe
          </td>
          <td>2011-04-01</td>
          <td>The Journal of Immunology</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory condition of the gastro-intestinal tract that usually manifests as either ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease. Helicobacter hepaticus (Hh)-induced colitis is a mouse model of intestinal inflammation whereby IL-10 knock out mice are infected with Hh, resulting in pathology similar to that seen in Crohn's disease. 
 
Following the Complex Systems Modelling and Simulation (CoSMoS) process, a principled approach to the engineering of simulations of complex systems, we have developed IBDSim, a computational model of the processes active in the intestinal tract during Hh-induced colitis. IBDSim is a hybrid agent-based model (ABM) that combines agent-based modelling with systems biology and quantitative systems pharmacology approaches, to capture both cell- and system-level behaviours. In combining these approaches, the Automated Simulation Parameter Alteration and SensItivity Analysis toolkit (ASPASIA) was developed to aid in the calibration and analysis of models written in Systems Biology Mark-up Language (SBML), where the addition of an intervention is required for key behaviours to emerge. SBML models generated using this toolkit could then be incorporated into IBDSim.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/45dd078310f7f22c57968be7dd699ae4f426d841" target='_blank'>A computational approach to studying the processes active during Helicobacter hepaticus-induced intestinal inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Evans
          </td>
          <td>2016-09-01</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Clinical evidence supports the combination therapy of vedolizumab (a gut-selective, anti-lymphocyte trafficking drug inhibiting α4β7-integrin) with JAK 1, 2, 3 inhibitors (JAKi) for Inflammatory Bowel Disease. However, the mechanistic explanation for the improved outcomes in Ulcerative Colitis patients treated with vedolizumab plus JAKi remains unknown and even more in Crohn's Disease (CD). In this study we used an unbiased in silico systems biology and artificial intelligence approach to gain a holistic view of the mechanisms that may underpin the potential benefits of the mentioned combination therapy in the treatment of CD.
 
 
 
 The drugs under study -vedolizumab and JAKi- and CD were characterized at protein level by compiling data from extensive literature search. Through it, human protein interaction networks focused on CD protein effectors were generated and used to construct mathematical models using Therapeutic Performance Mapping System (TPMS) technology (Anaxomics Biotech, Barcelona, Spain). Sampling-based methods were employed to assess the impact on CD of the combined therapy vedolizumab plus JAKi and to describe underlying molecular mechanisms.
 
 
 
 Characterization of CD allowed identifying 4 pathological processes (referred to as motives-M) underlying the manifestation of the disease: intestinal barrier disruption (M1), increased innate immune response (M2), chronic inflammation and Th1/Th17 adaptive immune response (M3) and tissue remodeling (M4) and the molecular effectors or proteins involved in each motive. The combination of vedolizumab and JAKi induced a high degree of reversion of the effectors altered in CD (54.76%), higher than the percentage reverted by the individual drugs. Combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy mainly modulated M3, where both drugs mostly converge although by distinct mechanisms, thus providing additional individual benefits. The combination therapy reverted a great percentage of M3 effectors, for example, CCR9 and FASLG which were increased in CD, were reverted (or downregulated). In addition to M3 modulation, the combination therapy also modulated M1 and M4. In M1, vedolizumab is the one that would provide more complementary mechanisms apart from those that already converge in both drugs. Regarding M4, it seems that main contribution comes from complementarity pathways of the different mechanisms of action of each individual drug.
 
 
 
 The constructed in silico models reveal that the combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy could modulate a high array of effectors altered in CD, more than any of the therapies alone, by enhancing the effects of the individual drugs, and provide a mechanistic rationale for employing the combination of these drugs as potential therapy for CD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37afddf4916b5088749544ad27899c601491b710" target='_blank'>P969 Unveiling the molecular mechanisms of the combination of vedolizumab with JAK inhibitors in Crohn’s Disease through a systems biology and artificial intelligence-based approach</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Marín-Jiménez, M. Sierra-Ausín, T. Letosa-Abián, J. Aparicio, C. Montoto-Otero, S. Sánchez-Ramón
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Various extrinsic and intrinsic factors such as drug exposures, antibiotic treatments, smoking, lifestyle, genetics, immune responses, and the gut microbiome characterize ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, collectively called inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). All these factors contribute to the complexity and heterogeneity of the disease etiology and pathogenesis leading to major challenges for the scientific community in improving management, medical treatments, genetic risk, and exposome impact. Understanding the interaction(s) among these factors and their effects on the immune system in IBD patients has prompted advances in multi‐omics research, the development of new tools as part of system biology, and more recently, artificial intelligence (AI) approaches. These innovative approaches, supported by the availability of big data and large volumes of digital medical datasets, hold promise in better understanding the natural histories, predictors of disease development, severity, complications and treatment outcomes in complex diseases, providing decision support to doctors, and promising to bring us closer to the realization of the “precision medicine” paradigm. This review aims to provide an overview of current IBD omics based on both individual (genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metagenomics) and multi‐omics levels, highlighting how AI can facilitate the integration of heterogeneous data to summarize our current understanding of the disease and to identify current gaps in knowledge to inform upcoming research in this field.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4ce7ad87d298d804fa5b06fe06196a3d8f7fd6d2" target='_blank'>Inflammatory bowel disease genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and metagenomics meet artificial intelligence</a></td>
          <td>
            Anna Lucia Cannarozzi, A. Latiano, L. Massimino, F. Bossa, Francesco Giuliani, Matteo Riva, F. Ungaro, Maria Guerra, Anna Laura Di Brina, G. Biscaglia, F. Tavano, S. Carparelli, G. Fiorino, S. Danese, F. Perri, O. Palmieri
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-31</td>
          <td>United European Gastroenterology Journal</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systems biology is an approach that marries complimentary disciplines, encouraging the use of quantitative methods to help define, explain, and predict biological processes. By building computational models of biological systems, we can pose new biologically motivated questions and make falsifiable, quantitative predictions. In this thesis I will discuss the cycle of model building and experimental validation, and how it has provided insight into poorly and understood systems and allowed us to predict the effects of perturbations on these systems, which could have real and significant effects in human health and medicine. First, we model the activation of neutrophils in sepsis. By fitting a single model to two sets of data, coming from animals that survive and succumb to the same bacterial challenge, we create a realistic representation of biological variation, showing how a single network architecture can lead to different outcomes. Additionally, this method allows us to identify markers for sepsis susceptibility and identify and optimize a potential treatment option to lead to improved outcomes. Next, we model signaling downstream of the T cell receptor, and how this leads to differentiation decision making in CD4 T cells. By modeling the dynamics of this signaling network under varying antigen doses, we are able to identify network elements critical to dose discrimination, leading to the production of Treg cells following low dose stimulation and Th cells following high dose stimulation. We can then perturb these elements of the network, to potentially fine tune mature T cell populations to alter the trajectories of autoimmune disorders or cancer. Finally, we model the dynamics of IL-17 signaling. This allows us to understand how ubiquitin scaffolds form following cytokine stimulation, leading to the activation of NF-B, and how the ubiquitin editing enzyme A20 acts as a negative feedback regulator by breaking these chains. This allows us to better understand ubiquitin oligomerization as a fulcrum in the system, and how changes in A20 and ubiquitin binding proteins lead to different profiles of NF-B activation and could play a role in inflammatory disorders.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7c5de783dbb55c40e10e29aae4417239bfb08290" target='_blank'>Closing the loop: A combined computational modeling and experimental approach provides novel insights into immune cell signaling systems and their global effects.</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Sheehan
          </td>
          <td>2016-09-08</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Inﬂammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic relapsing inflammatory disorders that result from an inappropriate inflammatory response to the enteric microbiota in a genetically susceptible host. Because the molecular mechanisms of IBD have been the subject of intensive exploration, we assembled the available information into a suite of comprehensive causal biological network models, which offer a better visualisation and understanding of the processes underlying IBD.
 
 
 
 Biological expression language (BEL), which represents biological findings in a computable form was used for scientific text curation. The curated BEL statements were compiled using the OpenBEL framework 3.0.0. Cytoscape was used to visualise and analyse network properties. The network perturbation amplitude methodology was used to score the network models with transcriptomic data from public data repositories.
 
 
 
 The IBD network model suite consists of four independent models that represent signalling pathways contributing to biological processes involved in IBD. In the ‘wound healing’ model, fibroblast growth factor and thymosin β-4-associated signalling pathways emerged as the main routes leading to epithelial cell proliferation and thus to wound repair. Phosphoinositide 3-kinases and carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule-associated pathways were identified in the ‘bacterial colonisation’ model as the primary pathways modulating bacterial adhesion and internalisation. In the ‘immunity’ model, nuclear factor-κB and myeloid differentiation primary response 88 emerged as the main contributors to immune responses. In the ‘epithelial barrier defence’ model, tumour necrosis factor- and interleukin 1-associated signalling cascades were the main routes leading to tight junction disruption and thereby, to increased permeability in the intestinal epithelium. The scoring of publicly available transcriptomic data sets onto these network models demonstrates that the IBD models capture the perturbation in each dataset accurately.
 
 
 
 This work is a continuation of our approach using computational biological network models and mathematical algorithms in order to interpret high-throughput molecular datasets. The IBD network model suite can provide better mechanistic insights of the transcriptional changes in IBD and constitutes a valuable tool in personalised medicine to further understand molecular heterogeneity and individual drug responses in IBD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ad3789b95779f133e6fb3177487fc1a8274905bc" target='_blank'>P109 Construction of a suite of computable biological network models focused on inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            P. A. R. Castro, H. Yepiskoposyan, J. Szostak, M. Talikka, J. Hoeng
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-15</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohns & Colitis</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/110957bda708407ea7233dae872470c80636d97d" target='_blank'>In silico modeling in infectious disease</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Daun, G. Clermont
          </td>
          <td>2007-10-01</td>
          <td>Drug Discovery Today. Disease Models</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>55</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disorders are non-infectious chronic inflammation of the esophageal tract (IBD). IBD is divided into two types: ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease. The highest incidence and prevalence rates of ulcerative colitis are seen in North America and northern Europe, with incidence rates ranging from 9 to 20 cases per 100 000 person-years and prevalence rates ranging from 156 to 291 cases per 100 000 persons. OZM is contraindicated in patients with previous history of cardiovascular complications. The dose and dosage of OZM is 0.23 mg by oral route (qDay) for 1 to 4 days followed by 5 to 7:0.46 mg and on eighth day titrated to 0.92 mg PO (qDay). OZM is not highly recommended in pregnant and lactating women since existing animal studies not reported with enough evidence. The in silico analysis of Ozanimod (OZM) is not yet been fully characterized. The current study was designed to investigate the pharmacokinetic profile of the OZM and its interaction potential with UC target protein.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8146d60559fce654360081441e7243fe352e72cd" target='_blank'>Network pharmacology and in silico pharmacokinetic prediction of Ozanimod in the management of ulcerative colitis: A computational study</a></td>
          <td>
            Priya Sivasakthi, Sarvesh Sabarathinam, T. Vijayakumar
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-01</td>
          <td>Health Science Reports</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6ed7f8a4abcdabe551cd8ce3581a34ce48ebb694" target='_blank'>Systems biology approach highlights mechanistic differences between Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis</a></td>
          <td>
            P. A. Ruiz Castro, H. Yepiskoposyan, Sylvain Gubian, Florian Calvino-Martin, U. Kogel, K. Renggli, M. Peitsch, J. Hoeng, M. Talikka
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-01</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic immune-mediated condition arising due to complex interactions between multiple genetic and environmental factors. Despite recent advances, the pathogenesis of the condition is not fully understood and patients still experience suboptimal clinical outcomes. Over the past few years, investigators are increasingly capturing multi-omics data from patient cohorts to better characterise the disease. However, reaching clinically translatable endpoints from these complex multi-omics datasets is an arduous task. Network biology, a branch of systems biology that utilises mathematical graph theory to represent, integrate and analyse biological data through networks, will be key to addressing this challenge. In this narrative review, we provide an overview of various types of network biology approaches that have been utilised in IBD including protein-protein interaction networks, metabolic networks, gene regulatory networks and gene co-expression networks. We also include examples of multi-layered networks that have combined various network types to gain deeper insights into IBD pathogenesis. Finally, we discuss the need to incorporate other data sources including metabolomic, histopathological, and high-quality clinical meta-data. Together with more robust network data integration and analysis frameworks, such efforts have the potential to realise the key goal of precision medicine in IBD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c4537b203113177c1ee4e3661fa0e6604c1e3fd" target='_blank'>Network Biology Approaches to Achieve Precision Medicine in Inflammatory Bowel Disease</a></td>
          <td>
            John P. Thomas, D. Módos, T. Korcsmáros, J. Brooks-Warburton
          </td>
          <td>2021-10-21</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Agent‐based modeling is a rule‐based, discrete‐event, and spatially explicit computational modeling method that employs computational objects that instantiate the rules and interactions among the individual components (“agents”) of system. Agent‐based modeling is well suited to translating into a computational model the knowledge generated from basic science research, particularly with respect to translating across scales the mechanisms of cellular behavior into aggregated cell population dynamics manifesting at the tissue and organ level. This capacity has made agent‐based modeling an integral method in translational systems biology (TSB), an approach that uses multiscale dynamic computational modeling to explicitly represent disease processes in a clinically relevant fashion. The initial work in the early 2000s using agent‐based models (ABMs) in TSB focused on examining acute inflammation and its intersection with wound healing; the decade since has seen vast growth in both the application of agent‐based modeling to a wide array of disease processes as well as methodological advancements in the use and analysis of ABM. This report presents an update on an earlier review of ABMs in TSB and presents examples of exciting progress in the modeling of various organs and diseases that involve inflammation. This review also describes developments that integrate the use of ABMs with cutting‐edge technologies such as high‐performance computing, machine learning, and artificial intelligence, with a view toward the future integration of these methodologies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/888ee0342cf30a47a191f4582f3b77cea912fd60" target='_blank'>Agent‐based models of inflammation in translational systems biology: A decade later</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz, G. An
          </td>
          <td>2019-07-01</td>
          <td>Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine</td>
          <td>22</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present an agent-based model (ABM) to simulate a hepatic inflammatory response (HIR) in a mouse infected by Salmonella that sometimes progressed to problematic proportions, known as “sepsis”. Based on over 200 published studies, this ABM describes interactions among 21 cells or cytokines and incorporates 226 experimental data sets and/or data estimates from those reports to simulate a mouse HIR in silico. Our simulated results reproduced dynamic patterns of HIR reported in the literature. As shown in vivo, our model also demonstrated that sepsis was highly related to the initial Salmonella dose and the presence of components of the adaptive immune system. We determined that high mobility group box-1, C-reactive protein, and the interleukin-10: tumor necrosis factor-α ratio, and CD4+ T cell: CD8+ T cell ratio, all recognized as biomarkers during HIR, significantly correlated with outcomes of HIR. During therapy-directed silico simulations, our results demonstrated that anti-agent intervention impacted the survival rates of septic individuals in a time-dependent manner. By specifying the infected species, source of infection, and site of infection, this ABM enabled us to reproduce the kinetics of several essential indicators during a HIR, observe distinct dynamic patterns that are manifested during HIR, and allowed us to test proposed therapy-directed treatments. Although limitation still exists, this ABM is a step forward because it links underlying biological processes to computational simulation and was validated through a series of comparisons between the simulated results and experimental studies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/285659b50503dedaaf1e4cfbc44d945d1b3b5015" target='_blank'>An Agent-Based Model of a Hepatic Inflammatory Response to Salmonella: A Computational Study under a Large Set of Experimental Data</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhenzhen Shi, S. Chapes, D. Ben-Arieh, Chih-Hang Wu
          </td>
          <td>2016-08-24</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>23</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/688bdf93e0b5923c287709c96a57a560ed30bee9" target='_blank'>A systems approach to dissecting immunity and inflammation.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Aderem, Kelly D. Smith
          </td>
          <td>2004-02-01</td>
          <td>Seminars in immunology</td>
          <td>77</td>
          <td>98</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract The immune system is a complex distributed system consisting of cells, which circulate through the body, communicate and turnover in response to antigenic perturbations. We discuss new approaches to modelling the functioning of the immune system of humans and experimental animals with a focus on its ‘complexity’. Emerging mathematical and computer models are reviewed to describe the immune system diversity, the cell/cytokine network communication structures, hierarchical regulation, and evolutionary dynamics of immune repertoires.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/84cc5067b6048c367b415023cb486b2bd5b58cfd" target='_blank'>Multiphysics modelling of immune processes using distributed parameter systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Gennady A. Bocharov, D. S. Grebennikov, R. Savinkov
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-01</td>
          <td>Russian Journal of Numerical Analysis and Mathematical Modelling</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Clinical symptoms of microbial infection of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract are often exacerbated by inflammation induced pathology. Identifying novel avenues for treating and preventing such pathologies is necessary and complicated by the complexity of interacting immune pathways in the gut, where effector and inflammatory immune cells are regulated by anti-inflammatory or regulatory cells. Here we present new advances in the development of the ENteric Immunity SImulator (ENISI), a simulator of GI immune mechanisms in response to resident commensal bacteria as well as invading pathogens and the effect on the development of intestinal lesions. ENISI is a tool for identifying potential treatment strategies that reduce inflammation-induced damage and, at the same time, ensure pathogen removal by allowing one to test plausibility of in vitro observed behavior as explanations for observations in vivo, propose behaviors not yet tested in vitro that could explain these tissue-level observations, and conduct low-cost, preliminary experiments of proposed interventions/treatments. An example of such application is shown in which we simulate dysentery resulting from Brachyispira hyodysenteriae infection and identify aspects of the host immune pathways that lead to continued inflammation-induced tissue damage even after pathogen elimination.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d95fa8a9091e8ee469d1ee1535064cb80e731604" target='_blank'>ENteric Immunity SImulator: A Tool for In Silico Study of Gastroenteric Infections</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Wendelsdorf, Maksudul Alam, J. Bassaganya-Riera, Keith Bisset, Stephen Eubank, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Madhav V. Marathe
          </td>
          <td>2012-09-10</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on NanoBioscience</td>
          <td>40</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Background Helicobacter pylori causes gastric cancer in 1–2% of cases but is also beneficial for protection against allergies and gastroesophageal diseases. An estimated 85% of H. pylori–colonized individuals experience no detrimental effects. To study the mechanisms promoting host tolerance to the bacterium in the gastrointestinal mucosa and systemic regulatory effects, we investigated the dynamics of immunoregulatory mechanisms triggered by H. pylori using a high-performance computing–driven ENteric Immunity SImulator multiscale model. Immune responses were simulated by integrating an agent-based model, ordinary, and partial differential equations. Results The outputs were analyzed using 2 sequential stages: the first used a partial rank correlation coefficient regression–based and the second a metamodel-based global sensitivity analysis. The influential parameters screened from the first stage were selected to be varied for the second stage. The outputs from both stages were combined as a training dataset to build a spatiotemporal metamodel. The Sobol indices measured time-varying impact of input parameters during initiation, peak, and chronic phases of infection. The study identified epithelial cell proliferation and epithelial cell death as key parameters that control infection outcomes. In silico validation showed that colonization with H. pylori decreased with a decrease in epithelial cell proliferation, which was linked to regulatory macrophages and tolerogenic dendritic cells. Conclusions The hybrid model of H. pylori infection identified epithelial cell proliferation as a key factor for successful colonization of the gastric niche and highlighted the role of tolerogenic dendritic cells and regulatory macrophages in modulating the host responses and shaping infection outcomes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6e22248d3e832f36604aaebfafabe13d41823bd7" target='_blank'>High-resolution computational modeling of immune responses in the gut</a></td>
          <td>
            Meghna Verma, J. Bassaganya-Riera, A. Leber, Nuria Tubau-Juni, S. Hoops, V. Abedi, Xi Chen, R. Hontecillas
          </td>
          <td>2019-06-01</td>
          <td>GigaScience</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c536333e7bdcd1289228f777b10c660165468f60" target='_blank'>Computational systems biology in disease modeling and control, review and perspectives</a></td>
          <td>
            Rongting Yue, Abhishek Dutta
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-03</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>34</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11bc72402348f9198a43e78eb74bf93aa40928bf" target='_blank'>Correction to: A Computational Platform Integrating a Mechanistic Model of Crohn’s Disease for Predicting Temporal Progression of Mucosal Damage and Healing</a></td>
          <td>
            Sai Phanindra Venkatapurapu, R. Iwakiri, E. Udagawa, Nikhil Patidar, Zhen Qi, Ryoko Takayama, Kei Kumar, Yuki Sato, Marcelo Behar, P. Offner, G. Dwivedi, Haruna Miyasaka, Ryohsuke Ken Suzuki, A. L. Hamada, P. M. D’Alessandro, Jovelle L Fernandez
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-13</td>
          <td>Advances in Therapy</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The COVID-19 pandemic significantly transformed the field of mathematical modeling in immunology. International collaboration among numerous research groups yielded a substantial amount of experimental data, which greatly facilitated model validation and led to the development of new mathematical models. The aim of the study is an improvement of system understanding of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection based on the development of a modular mathematical model which provides a foundation for further research on host-pathogen interactions. We utilized the open-source BioUML platform to develop a model using ordinary, delay and stochastic differential equations. The model was validated using experimental data from middle-aged individuals with moderate COVID-19 progression, including measurements of viral load, antibodies, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and interleukin-6 levels. Parameter optimization and sensitivity analysis were conducted to refine the model’s accuracy. The model effectively reproduces moderate, severe, and critical COVID-19 progressions, consistent with experimental observations. We investigated the efficiency and contributions of innate and adaptive immunity in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and assessed immune system behavior during co-infection with HIV and organ transplantation. Additionally, we studied therapy methods, such as interferon administration. The developed model can be employed as a framework for simulating other infectious diseases taking into account follow-up immune response. Author summary Despite the significant progress reached in understanding of COVID-19, traditional methods still struggle to analyze and interpret the extensive and sometimes controversial experimental data on SARS-CoV-2 infection. Mathematical and systems biology approaches attempt to address this challenge by developing mathematical models of the immune response. We aimed not only to investigate the disease at a systemic level but also to provide a framework for further research on host-pathogen interactions, both existing and forthcoming. To achieve this, we constructed a model incorporating both innate and adaptive immunity, as well as cellular and humoral components. This together allowed us to conduct a series of in silico experiments, exploring the immune response across various levels and compartments. The results of these investigations offer valuable insights into the complex dynamics of the immune system and can guide future research and therapeutic strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fba63039c2028ccefcb6ba1155b931e933bffd6f" target='_blank'>A modular model of immune response as a computational platform to investigate a pathogenesis of infection disease</a></td>
          <td>
            M.I. Miroshnichenko, F. Kolpakov, I. Akberdin
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-01</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is an inherent protection system in vertebrate animals including human beings that exhibit properties such as self-organisation, self-adaptation, learning, and recognition. It interacts with the other allied systems such as the gut and lymph nodes. There is a need for immune system modelling to know about its complex internal mechanism, to understand how it maintains the homoeostasis, and how it interacts with the other systems. There are two types of modelling techniques used for the simulation of features of the immune system: equation-based modelling (EBM) and agent-based modelling. Owing to certain shortcomings of the EBM, agent-based modelling techniques are being widely used. This technique provides various predictions for disease causes and treatments; it also helps in hypothesis verification. This study presents a review of agent-based modelling of the immune system and its interactions with the gut and lymph nodes. The authors also review the modelling of immune system interactions during tuberculosis and cancer. In addition, they also outline the future research directions for the immune system simulation through agent-based techniques such as the effects of stress on the immune system, evolution of the immune system, and identification of the parameters for a healthy immune system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/531e74b0531bd285279718e54e6f22b4bffdb427" target='_blank'>Review of the systems biology of the immune system using agent-based models.</a></td>
          <td>
            Snehal B. Shinde, M. Kurhekar
          </td>
          <td>2018-06-01</td>
          <td>IET systems biology</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Immune responses rely on a complex adaptive system in which the body and infections interact at multiple scales and in different compartments. We developed a modular model of CD4+ T cells, which uses four modeling approaches to integrate processes at three spatial scales in different tissues. In each cell, signal transduction and gene regulation are described by a logical model, metabolism by constraint-based models. Cell population dynamics are described by an agent-based model and systemic cytokine concentrations by ordinary differential equations. A Monte Carlo simulation algorithm allows information to flow efficiently between the four modules by separating the time scales. Such modularity improves computational performance and versatility and facilitates data integration. We validated our technology by reproducing known experimental results, including differentiation patterns of CD4+ T cells triggered by different combinations of cytokines, metabolic regulation by IL2 in these cells, and their response to influenza infection. In doing so, we added multi-scale insights to single-scale studies and demonstrated its predictive power by discovering switch-like and oscillatory behaviors of CD4+ T cells that arise from nonlinear dynamics interwoven across three scales. We identified the inflamed lymph node’s ability to retain naive CD4+ T cells as a key mechanism in generating these emergent behaviors. We envision our model and the generic framework encompassing it to serve as a tool for understanding cellular and molecular immunological problems through the lens of systems immunology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c15430dfb8414422cf7cc67db6d33838d46f6838" target='_blank'>A multi-approach and multi-scale platform to model CD4+ T cells responding to infections</a></td>
          <td>
            Kenneth Y. Wertheim, B. L. Puniya, Alyssa La Fleur, A. Shah, Matteo Barberis, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-01</td>
          <td>PLoS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Omics and drug molecules become increasingly influential in identifying disease mechanisms and drug response. Because diseases and drug responses are co-expressed and regulated in the relevant omics interactions, the traditional way that grabbing molecular data from single isolated layers cannot always obtain valuable inference. Also, adverse effects exist in drugs that impair patients, and launching new medicines for diseases is costly. To resolve the above difficulties, systems biology is then applied to predict potential molecular interaction elements by integrating omics data from genomic, proteomic, transcriptional, and metabolic layers. Combined with known drug reactions, the resulting models improve medicines’ therapeutical performance by re-purposing the existing drugs and combining drug molecules without off-target effects. Based on the identified computational models, drug administration control laws are designed to balance toxicity and efficacy. This review introduces biomedical applications and analyses of interactions among omics and drug molecules for modeling disease mechanism and drug response. The therapeutical performance can be improved by combining the predictive and computational models with drug administration designed by control laws. The challenges are discussed for its clinic uses.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e1209aa00eb2b7665c9076ebc887ae3b0626ec5e" target='_blank'>Systems biology in disease modeling and control, analysis and perspectives</a></td>
          <td>
            Rongting Yue, Abhishek Dutta
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-02</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Here we present the ENteric Immunity Simulator (ENISI), a modeling system for the inflammatory and regulatory immune pathways triggered by microbe-immune cell interactions in the gut. With ENISI, immunologists and infectious disease experts can test and generate hypotheses for enteric disease pathology and propose interventions through experimental infection of an in silico gut. ENISI is an agent based simulator, in which individual cells move through the simulated tissues, and engage in context-dependent interactions with the other cells with which they are in contact. The scale of ENISI is unprecedented in this domain, with the ability to simulate 107 cells for 250 simulated days on 576 cores in one and a half hours, with the potential to scale to even larger hardware and problem sizes. In this paper we describe the ENISI simulator for modeling mucosal immune responses to gastrointestinal pathogens. We then demonstrate the utility of ENISI by recreating an experimental infection of a mouse with Helicobacter pylori 26695. The results identify specific processes by which bacterial virulence factors do and do not contribute to pathogenesis associated with H. pylori strain 26695. These modeling results inform general intervention strategies by indicating immunomodulatory mechanisms such as those used in inflammatory bowel disease may be more appropriate therapeutically than directly targeting specific microbial populations through vaccination or by using antimicrobials.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/69d094f8ca84e0157e1122cb5a03654f650b7321" target='_blank'>High-Performance Interaction-Based Simulation of Gut Immunopathologies with ENteric Immunity Simulator (ENISI)</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Bisset, Md. Maksudul Alam, J. Bassaganya-Riera, Adria Carbo, S. Eubank, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Yongguo Mei, K. Wendelsdorf, D. Xie, Jae-Seung Yeom, M. Marathe
          </td>
          <td>2012-05-21</td>
          <td>2012 IEEE 26th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>56</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This special Systems Biology of Microbial Infection research topic is dedicated to the dynamic modeling and model-driven analysis of microbial infection processes. It aims at describing and analyzing the confrontation of the host with bacterial and fungal pathogens, and at modeling and understanding the interactions of the immune system of humans and animals, with pathogens. 
 
The early stages of the mathematical modeling of infectious diseases were initiated at the beginning of the twentieth century and were based on the population dynamics of epidemics, e.g., to design governmental vaccination policy (Ross, 1911, 1916). 
 
Today, systems biology of microbial infection considers molecular, cellular, and even organismic levels of the pathogen and the host’s immune system and is directed toward personalized medicine and theranostics. 
 
The presented papers comprise theoretical and experimental studies. Some contributions present an integrative analysis of genome-wide data from both the host and the pathogen. Other contributions report on spatio-temporal determinations of host-pathogen interactions or the response of the host and pathogenic cells to defined perturbations that simulate infectious conditions. 
 
This research topic is organized in two parts, with the first part consisting of four review articles and the second part consisting of seven original research papers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e75b5f38e6d7c3854cb2f474e5d95873b25d85ca" target='_blank'>Systems Biology of Microbial Infection</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Guthke, J. Linde, F. Mech, M. Figge
          </td>
          <td>2012-09-12</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Microbiology</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is a complex and dynamic network, crucial for combating infections and maintaining health. Developing a comprehensive digital twin of the immune system requires incorporating essential cellular components and their interactions. This study presents the first blueprint for an immune system digital twin, consisting of a comprehensive and simulatable mechanistic model. It integrates 51 innate and adaptive immune cells, 37 secretory factors, and 11 disease conditions, providing the foundation for developing a multi-scale model. The cellular-level model demonstrates its potential in characterizing immune responses to various single and combinatorial disease conditions. By making the model available in easy-to-use formats directly in the Cell Collective platform, the community can easily and further expand it. This blueprint represents a significant step towards developing general-purpose immune digital twins, with far-reaching implications for the future of digital twin technology in life sciences and healthcare, advancing patient care, and accelerating precision medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6641c34ef9f1144419c9d233fad85729b60ada25" target='_blank'>Immune Digital Twin Blueprint: A Comprehensive Mechanistic Model of the Human Immune System</a></td>
          <td>
            Rada Amin, S. Aghamiri, B. L. Puniya, Lauren Mayo, Dennis Startsev, Kashish Poore, Resa M. K. Helikar, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-12</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="CD4+ T cells provide adaptive immunity against pathogens and abnormal cells, and they are also associated with various immune related diseases. CD4+ T cells’ metabolism is dysregulated in these pathologies and represents an opportunity for drug discovery and development. Genome-scale metabolic modeling offers an opportunity to accelerate drug discovery by providing high-quality information about possible target space in the context of a modeled disease. Here, we develop genome-scale models of naïve, Th1, Th2 and Th17 CD4+ T cell subtypes to map metabolic perturbations in rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and primary biliary cholangitis. We subjected these models to in silico simulations for drug response analysis of existing FDA-approved drugs, and compounds. Integration of disease-specific differentially expressed genes with altered reactions in response to metabolic perturbations identified 68 drug targets for the three autoimmune diseases. In vitro experimental validations together with literature-based evidence showed that modulation of fifty percent of identified drug targets has been observed to lead to suppression of CD4+ T cells, further increasing their potential impact as therapeutic interventions. The used approach can be generalized in the context of other diseases, and novel metabolic models can be further used to dissect CD4+ T cell metabolism.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4ead2f49f8458b809be66dc12f34f44138929857" target='_blank'>Integrative computational approach identifies new targets in CD4+ T cell-mediated immune disorders</a></td>
          <td>
            B. L. Puniya, Rada Amin, Bailee Lichter, Robert Moore, A. Ciurej, Sydney Townsend, Ab Rauf Shah, Matteo Barberis, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-02</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/790e3a8ad8718788e35b3a0fdd34cb22338162ef" target='_blank'>A guide to systems-level immunomics</a></td>
          <td>
            L. Bonaguro, J. Schulte-Schrepping, T. Ulas, A. Aschenbrenner, M. Beyer, J. Schultze
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-22</td>
          <td>Nature Immunology</td>
          <td>45</td>
          <td>93</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system plays a critical role in protecting the human body against various pathogens and diseases. Understanding the complexity and dynamics of the immune system is essential for developing effective therapies and interventions. Agent-based modeling (ABM) has emerged as a powerful tool for simulating and studying the behavior of complex systems, including the immune system. This review examines the advantages, challenges, and applications of ABM in immune system modeling. ABM captures the complexity of immune cell behavior, spatial effects and stochasticity. It has been applied to study immune cell dynamics, immune responses to pathogens, immune cell migration, immunotherapies and immune system disorders. Challenges include parameterization, validation, and computational resource requirements. Future directions involve integrating multi-omics and single-cell data, incorporating machine learning, exploring multi-scale modeling, and developing user-friendly interfaces. ABM holds promise for enhancing our understanding of immune system dynamics and advancing diagnostics and treatments in immunology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d234c3a3d3e3dfa896bd15157f48d6581b3a663c" target='_blank'>Modeling the Immune System Through Agent-based Modeling: A Mini-review</a></td>
          <td>
            Yousef Jamali
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-01</td>
          <td>Immunoregulation</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Dynamic disease pathways are a combination of complex dynamical processes among bio-molecules in a cell that leads to diseases. Network modeling of disease pathways considers disease-related bio-molecules (e.g. DNA, RNA, transcription factors, enzymes, proteins, and metabolites) and their interaction (e.g. DNA methylation, histone modification, alternative splicing, and protein modification) to study disease progression and predict therapeutic responses. These bio-molecules and their interactions are the basic elements in the study of the misregulation in the disease-related gene expression that lead to abnormal cellular responses. Gene regulatory networks, cell signaling networks, and metabolic networks are the three major types of intracellular networks for the study of the cellular responses elicited from extracellular signals. The disease-related cellular responses can be prevented or regulated by designing control strategies to manipulate these extracellular or other intracellular signals. The paper reviews the regulatory mechanisms, the dynamic models, and the control strategies for each intracellular network. The applications, limitations and the prospective for modeling and control are also discussed.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b6ac0afc9f0cd52b454b00930bb039baf04d3887" target='_blank'>Network Modeling and Control of Dynamic Disease Pathways, Review and Perspectives</a></td>
          <td>
            Yen-Che Hsiao, Abhishek Dutta
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-18</td>
          <td>IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8e913f5b38ea1fa181c5c47d04c1ee10840eec9a" target='_blank'>Artificial intelligence guided discovery of a barrier-protective therapy in inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Sahoo, Lee Swanson, I. Sayed, G. Katkar, Stella-Rita C. Ibeawuchi, Y. Mittal, Rama F. Pranadinata, Courtney Tindle, MacKenzie Fuller, Dominik L. Stec, John T. Chang, W. Sandborn, Soumita Das, P. Ghosh
          </td>
          <td>2021-07-12</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>42</td>
          <td>180</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Clinical symptoms of gastrointestinal (GI) infections are often caused by the inflammatory response elicited to eliminate the invading microbe. Here we present ENISI, a simulator of GI immune mechanisms in response to resident commensal bacteria as well as invading pathogens and the effect on host clinical symptoms. ENISI is a tool for identifying treatment strategies that reduce inflammation-induced damage and, at the same time, ensure pathogen removal by allowing one to test plausibility of in vitro observed behavior as explanations for observations in vivo, propose behaviors not yet tested in vitro that could explain these tissue-level observations, and conduct low-cost, preliminary experiments of proposed interventions/ treatments. An example of such application is shown in which we simulate dysentery resulting from B. hyodysenteriae infection and identify aspects of the host immune pathways that lead to continued inflammation-induced tissue damage even after pathogen elimination.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ca43cf82d33b6f299ac0772cea320019bb8e2eb8" target='_blank'>ENteric Immunity SImulator: A Tool for in silico Study of Gut Immunopathologies</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Wendelsdorf, J. Bassaganya-Riera, K. Bisset, S. Eubank, R. Hontecillas, M. Marathe
          </td>
          <td>2011-04-01</td>
          <td>2011 IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>56</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a044c589e6f5f2b20143495b590c29e0f1ed286a" target='_blank'>The development of a fully-integrated immune response model (FIRM) simulator of the immune response through integration of multiple subset models</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Palsson, T. Hickling, E. Bradshaw-Pierce, Michael Zager, K. Jooss, Peter O'Brien, M. Spilker, B. Palsson, P. Vicini
          </td>
          <td>2013-09-28</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>69</td>
          <td>142</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d338f0013edc63bb63ff7549f0cfea93d201688e" target='_blank'>Integrative computational approach identifies drug targets in CD4+ T-cell-mediated immune disorders</a></td>
          <td>
            B. L. Puniya, Rada Amin, Bailee Lichter, Robert Moore, A. Ciurej, Sydney J. Bennett, A. Shah, Matteo Barberis, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2021-01-22</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>