---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-29 08:54:14 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Negative feedback and ultrasensitivity can bring about oscillations in the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades.</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="For more than a decade, the MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) cascade has been studied using mathematical modelling and quantitative experimentation [1]. The MAPK cascade relays the presence of extracellular stimuli such as growth hormones to the nucleus and controls the expression of hundreds of genes. MAPKs control major cell fate decisions such as proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis, mainly by inducing alterations in gene expression. In this chapter, we discuss how systems biology analysis provides insights into the functioning of this cascade. We show how this pathway assists the cell in responding properly to extracellular cues by filtering out sub-threshold stimuli, while efficiently transmitting physiologically relevant inputs. Several different receptors signal through the MAPK pathway even though they elicit opposite biological responses, thus raising the question of how specificity is achieved in MAPK signalling. Experimental studies revealed that specific biological responses are encoded by quantitative aspects of the MAPK signal such as amplitude or duration. We discuss mechanisms that enable the pathway to generate quantitatively different signals, and also explain how different signals are interpreted by the downstream gene expression machinery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6240690e740bb11ac1d42f43f91ffcfad059dbaf" target='_blank'>Systems analysis of MAPK signal transduction.</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Blüthgen, S. Legewie
          </td>
          <td>2008-09-30</td>
          <td>Essays in biochemistry</td>
          <td>68</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="All cells receive and respond to signals from their environment, whether they live freely or are part of a tissue. Feedback loops are one among the interactions in signal-transduction cascades, in which the information from the downstream components is sent back to the upstream components of the system. Crosstalks between signal-transduction cascades are able to combine the information's received and processed to trigger the appropriate response. To understand how signaling networks make decisions, the dynamic interactions of proteins in the signal-transduction cascades are important rather than just creating static maps of pathways. Based on reaction kinetics, we have developed mathematical models to predict and analyze the impacts of the feedback loops in JNK cascades and the crosstalks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades. Feedback loops in JNK cascades and crosstalks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades plays the complementary roles in making the impacts on the activation of JNK and P38 kinases. JNK and P38 kinase cascades with feedbacks and crosstalks is a robust system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2880a4c0be242db0837a9696c152f250827dd584" target='_blank'>Dynamic Modeling and Simulation of JNK and P38 Kinase Cascades With Feedbacks and Crosstalks</a></td>
          <td>
            Pandurangan Sundaramurthy, S. Gakkhar
          </td>
          <td>2010-08-19</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on NanoBioscience</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mitogen‐activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades process a myriad of stimuli received by cell‐surface receptors and generate precise spatiotemporal guidance for multiple target proteins, dictating receptor‐specific cellular outcomes. Computational modeling reveals that the intrinsic topology of MAPK cascades enables them to amplify signal sensitivity and amplitude, reduce noise, and display intricate dynamic properties, which include toggle switches, excitation pulses, and oscillations. Specificity of signaling responses can be brought about by signal‐induced feedback and feedforward wiring imposed on the MAPK cascade backbone. Intracellular gradients of protein activities arise from the spatial separation of opposing reactions in kinase‐phosphatase cycles. The membrane confinement of the initiating kinase in MAPK cascades and cytosolic localization of phosphatases can result in precipitous gradients of phosphorylated signal‐transducers if they spread solely by diffusion. Endocytotic trafficking of active kinases driven by molecular motors and traveling waves of protein phosphorylation can propagate phosphorylation signals from the plasma membrane to the nucleus, especially in large cells, such as Xenopus eggs. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/549f0ea398377e29460e84284cf31387d6568803" target='_blank'>Four‐dimensional dynamics of MAPK information‐processing systems</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Kholodenko, M. Birtwistle
          </td>
          <td>2009-07-01</td>
          <td>Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/75fd6027d52e75c27e75990da11221684c3f5f16" target='_blank'>Attenuation of noise in ultrasensitive signaling cascades.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Thattai, A. van Oudenaarden
          </td>
          <td>2002-06-01</td>
          <td>Biophysical journal</td>
          <td>233</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Ultrasensitive response motifs, capable of converting graded stimuli into binary responses, are well-conserved in signal transduction networks. Although it has been shown that a cascade arrangement of multiple ultrasensitive modules can enhance the system’s ultrasensitivity, how a given combination of layers affects a cascade’s ultrasensitivity remains an open question for the general case. Here, we introduce a methodology that allows us to determine the presence of sequestration effects and to quantify the relative contribution of each module to the overall cascade’s ultrasensitivity. The proposed analysis framework provides a natural link between global and local ultrasensitivity descriptors and it is particularly well-suited to characterize and understand mathematical models used to study real biological systems. As a case study, we have considered three mathematical models introduced by O’Shaughnessy et al. to study a tunable synthetic MAPK cascade, and we show how our methodology can help modelers better understand alternative models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7403ccb5aec77299b40b0d3202d94fc5b21a3656" target='_blank'>Ultrasensitivity in signaling cascades revisited: Linking local and global ultrasensitivity estimations</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Altszyler, A. Ventura, A. Colman-Lerner, A. Chernomoretz
          </td>
          <td>2016-08-29</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/da87720f4767a44da3f92e497492607a5e8a082c" target='_blank'>When kinases meet mathematics: the systems biology of MAPK signalling</a></td>
          <td>
            W. Kolch, Muffy Calder, David R. Gilbert
          </td>
          <td>2005-03-21</td>
          <td>FEBS Letters</td>
          <td>190</td>
          <td>86</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is considered to be a central block in many biological signaling networks. Despite the common core cascade structure, the activation of MAPK in different biological systems can exhibit different types of dynamic behaviors. Computer modeling may help to reveal the mechanisms underlying such variations. However, so far most computational models of the MAPK cascade have been system-specific, or to reflect a particular type among the wide spectrum of possible dynamics. To obtain a general and integrated view of the relationship between the dynamics of MAPK activation and the structures and parameters of the MAPK cascade, we constructed a generic model by comparing previous models covering different specific biological systems. We assumed that reliable qualitative results could be predicted through a qualitative model with pseudo parameters. We used randomly sampled parameters instead of a specific set of “best-fit” parameters to avoid biases towards any particular systems. A range of dynamics behaviors for MAPK activation, including ultrasensitivity, bistability, transient activation and oscillation, were successfully predicted by the generic model. The results indicated that the steady state dynamics (ultrasensitivity and bistability) was jointly determined by the three-tiered structure of the MAPK cascade and the competitive substrate binding in the dual-phosphorylation processes of the central components, while the temporal dynamics (transient activation and oscillation) was mainly affected by the upstream signaling pathway and feedbacks. Moreover, MAPK kinase (MAPKK) played more important roles than the other two components in determining the dynamics of MAPK activation. We hypothesize that this is an important and advantageous property for the regulation and for the functional diversity of MAPK pathways in real cells. Finally, to assist developing generic models for signaling motifs through model comparisons, we proposed a reaction-based database to make the model data more flexible and interoperable.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/558a5c17bf4b19875b0696b35de9a583a6c40956" target='_blank'>Random Parameter Sampling of a Generic Three-Tier MAPK Cascade Model Reveals Major Factors Affecting Its Versatile Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhong Mai, Haiyan Liu
          </td>
          <td>2013-01-24</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Many distinct signaling pathways allow the cell to receive, process, and respond to information. Often, components of different pathways interact, resulting in signaling networks. Biochemical signaling networks were constructed with experimentally obtained constants and analyzed by computational methods to understand their role in complex biological processes. These networks exhibit emergent properties such as integration of signals across multiple time scales, generation of distinct outputs depending on input strength and duration, and self-sustaining feedback loops. Feedback can result in bistable behavior with discrete steady-state activities, well-defined input thresholds for transition between states and prolonged signal output, and signal modulation in response to transient stimuli. These properties of signaling networks raise the possibility that information for "learned behavior" of biological systems may be stored within intracellular biochemical reactions that comprise signaling pathways.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b9de3b7150cc254356bd579ef99e0714c1f3b39a" target='_blank'>Emergent properties of networks of biological signaling pathways.</a></td>
          <td>
            U. Bhalla, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>1999-01-15</td>
          <td>Science</td>
          <td>1646</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c063527a247ba6536dd3a9172cafc42cba946c5" target='_blank'>The effect of coupled feedback on noise filtering in signal transduction networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Dengyu Liu, Xiao Chang, Zengrong Liu, Luonan Chen, Ruiqi Wang
          </td>
          <td>2010-11-09</td>
          <td>Journal of Systems Science and Complexity</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>60</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Signal transduction is a complex protein signaling process with a rich network of multifunctional interactions that occur in a non‐linear fashion. Mitogen‐activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction pathways regulate diverse cellular processes ranging from proliferation and differentiation to apoptosis. In mammals, out of five, there are three well characterized subfamilies of MAPKs ‐ ERKs (Extracellular signal‐regulated kinases), JNKs (c‐Jun N‐terminal kinases), and P38 kinases, and their activators, are implicated in human diseases and are targets for drug development. Kinase cascades in MAPK pathways mediate the sensing and processing of stimuli. To understand how cells makes decisions, the dynamic interactions of components of signaling cascades are important rather than just creating static maps. Based on enzyme kinetic reactions, we have developed a mathematical model to analyze the impact of the cross‐talks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades. Cross‐talks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades influence the activities of P38 kinases. Responses of the signals should be studied for network of kinase cascades by considering cross‐talks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ef12bcae9ca82339a744c3b732a8bd77d348ac39" target='_blank'>Computational prediction and analysis of impact of the cross‐talks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades</a></td>
          <td>
            Pandurangan Sundaramurthy, S. Gakkhar, R. Sowdhamini
          </td>
          <td>2009-01-12</td>
          <td>Bioinformation</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/19ea531f407b034c82262a3c743a3f5575d55e9b" target='_blank'>Quantitative analysis of signaling networks.</a></td>
          <td>
            Herbert M. Sauro, B. Kholodenko
          </td>
          <td>2004-09-01</td>
          <td>Progress in biophysics and molecular biology</td>
          <td>213</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This paper considers the problem of attenuating retroactivity, that is, the effect of loads in biological networks and demonstrates that signal transduction cascades incorporating phosphotransfer modules have remarkable retroactivity attenuation ability. Uncovering the biological mechanisms for retroactivity attenuation is relevant in synthetic biology to enable bottom-up modular composition of complex circuits. It is also important in systems biology for deepening our current understanding of natural principles of modular organization. In this paper, we perform a combined theoretical and computational study of a cascade system comprising two phosphotransfer modules, ubiquitous in eukaryotic signal transduction, when subject to load from downstream targets. Employing singular perturbation on the finite time interval, we demonstrate that this system implements retroactivity attenuation when the input signal is sufficiently slow. Employing trajectory sensitivity analysis about nominal parameters that we have identified from in vivo data, we further demonstrate that the key parameters for retroactivity attenuation are those controlling the timescale of the system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5fe1e8403d8712297759700ad0b08376eb25f5b7" target='_blank'>Retroactivity attenuation through signal transduction cascades</a></td>
          <td>
            Phillip M. Rivera, D. Vecchio
          </td>
          <td>2014-06-04</td>
          <td>2014 American Control Conference</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We perform a systematic analysis of mechanisms of feedback regulation that underlie short-term adaptation in intracellular signaling systems. Upon receiving an external cue, these systems generate a transient response that quickly returns to basal levels even if the stimulus persists. Signaling pathways capable of short-term adaptation are found in systems as diverse as the high osmolarity response of yeast, gradient sensing in Dictyostelium, and the cytokine response in vertebrates. Using mathematical analysis and computational experiments, we compare different feedback architectures in terms of response amplitude and duration, ability to adapt, and response to variable stimulus levels. Our analysis reveals three important features of these systems: 1), multiple step signaling cascades improve sensitivity to low doses by an effect distinct from signal amplification; 2), some feedback architectures act as signal transducers converting stimulus strength into response duration; and 3), feedback deactivation acts as a dose-dependent switch between transient and sustained responses. Finally, we present characteristic features for each form of feedback regulation that can aid in their identification.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6ad10041d7c972a3372d38d46224538949483280" target='_blank'>Mathematical and computational analysis of adaptation via feedback inhibition in signal transduction pathways.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Behar, Nan Hao, H. Dohlman, T. Elston
          </td>
          <td>2007-08-01</td>
          <td>Biophysical journal</td>
          <td>115</td>
          <td>54</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cell responses are actuated by tightly controlled signal transduction pathways. Although the concept of an integrated signaling network replete with interpathway cross-talk and feedback regulation is broadly appreciated, kinetic data of the type needed to characterize such interactions in conjunction with mathematical models are lacking. In mammalian cells, the Ras/ERK pathway controls cell proliferation and other responses stimulated by growth factors, and several cross-talk and feedback mechanisms affecting its activation have been identified. In this work, we take a systematic approach to parse the magnitudes of multiple regulatory mechanisms that attenuate ERK activation through canonical (Ras-dependent) and non-canonical (PI3K-dependent) pathways. In addition to regulation of receptor and ligand levels, we consider three layers of ERK-dependent feedback: desensitization of Ras activation, negative regulation of MEK kinase (e.g. Raf) activities, and up-regulation of dual-specificity ERK phosphatases. Our results establish the second of these as the dominant mode of ERK self-regulation in mouse fibroblasts. We further demonstrate that kinetic models of signaling networks, trained on a sufficient diversity of quantitative data, can be reasonably comprehensive, accurate, and predictive in the dynamical sense.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/405be6d692d4836d3b3efde9333fdf1789ff05c7" target='_blank'>Systematic Quantification of Negative Feedback Mechanisms in the Extracellular Signal-regulated Kinase (ERK) Signaling Network*</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Cirit, Chun-Chao Wang, J. Haugh
          </td>
          <td>2010-09-16</td>
          <td>The Journal of Biological Chemistry</td>
          <td>91</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The EGF-induced MAP kinase cascade is one of the most important and best characterized networks in intracellular signalling. It has a vital role in the development and maturation of living organisms. However, when deregulated, it is involved in the onset of a number of diseases. Based on a computational model describing a “surface” and an “internalized” parallel route, we use systems biology techniques to characterize aspects of the network’s functional organization. We examine the re-organization of protein groups from low to high external stimulation, define functional groups of proteins within the network, determine the parameter best encoding for input intensity and predict the effect of protein removal to the system’s output response. Extensive functional re-organization of proteins is observed in the lower end of stimulus concentrations. As we move to higher concentrations the variability is less pronounced. 6 functional groups have emerged from a consensus clustering approach, reflecting different dynamical aspects of the network. Mutual information investigation revealed that the maximum activation rate of the two output proteins best encodes for stimulus intensity. Removal of each protein of the network resulted in a range of graded effects, from complete silencing to intense activation. Our results provide a new “vista” of the EGF-induced MAP kinase cascade, from the perspective of complex self-organizing systems. Functional grouping of the proteins reveals an organizational scheme contrasting the current understanding of modular topology. The six identified groups may provide the means to experimentally follow the dynamics of this complex network. Also, the vulnerability analysis approach may be used for the development of novel therapeutic targets in the context of personalized medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ccd7041af39a1cc5e66884c8aacd4b45fc5c205d" target='_blank'>Functional Aspects of the EGF-Induced MAP Kinase Cascade: A Complex Self-Organizing System Approach</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Kosmidis, V. Moschou, Georgios Ziogas, I. Boukovinas, M. Albani, N. Laskaris
          </td>
          <td>2014-11-05</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Intracellular signaling pathways that share common components often elicit distinct physiological responses. In most cases, the biochemical mechanisms responsible for this signal specificity remain poorly understood. Protein scaffolds and cross-inhibition have been proposed as strategies to prevent unwanted cross-talk. Here, we report a mechanism for signal specificity termed “kinetic insulation.” In this approach signals are selectively transmitted through the appropriate pathway based on their temporal profile. In particular, we demonstrate how pathway architectures downstream of a common component can be designed to efficiently separate transient signals from signals that increase slowly over time. Furthermore, we demonstrate that upstream signaling proteins can generate the appropriate input to the common pathway component regardless of the temporal profile of the external stimulus. Our results suggest that multilevel signaling cascades may have evolved to modulate the temporal profile of pathway activity so that stimulus information can be efficiently encoded and transmitted while ensuring signal specificity.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/34f99baf2a3fce2ef002f0b3da1545674a8824cc" target='_blank'>Kinetic insulation as an effective mechanism for achieving pathway specificity in intracellular signaling networks</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Behar, H. Dohlman, T. Elston
          </td>
          <td>2007-10-09</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>54</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/57d5b88b0d56e0cbcd654d31a31ed6d1e921247a" target='_blank'>Core network identification using parametric sensitivity and multi-way principal component analysis in NFkB signaling network</a></td>
          <td>
            Chang Yu, Yan Yu Chen, Shih-Chi Peng, David Shan-Hill Wong, Y. Chuang
          </td>
          <td>2013-06-01</td>
          <td>Journal of The Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cell responses are actuated by tightly controlled signal transduction pathways. Although the concept of an integrated signaling network replete with interpathway cross-talk and feedback regulation is broadly appreciated, kinetic data of the type needed to characterize such interactions in conjunction with mathematical models are lacking. In mammalian cells, the Ras/ERK pathway controls cell proliferation and other responses stimulated by growth factors, and several cross-talk and feedback mechanisms affecting its activation have been identified. In this work, we take a systematic approach to parse the magnitudes of multiple regulatory mechanisms that attenuate ERK activation through canonical (Ras-dependent) and non-canonical (PI3K-dependent) pathways. In addition to regulation of receptor and ligand levels, we consider three layers of ERK-dependent feedback: desensitization of Ras activation, negative regulation of MEK kinase (e.g. Raf) activities, and up-regulation of dual-specificity ERK phosphatases. Our results establish the second of these as the dominant mode of ERK self-regulation in mouse fibroblasts. We further demonstrate that kinetic models of signaling networks, trained on a sufficient diversity of quantitative data, can be reasonably comprehensive, accurate, and predictive in the dynamical sense.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/405be6d692d4836d3b3efde9333fdf1789ff05c7" target='_blank'>Systematic Quantification of Negative Feedback Mechanisms in the Extracellular Signal-regulated Kinase (ERK) Signaling Network*</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Cirit, Chun-Chao Wang, J. Haugh
          </td>
          <td>2010-09-16</td>
          <td>The Journal of Biological Chemistry</td>
          <td>91</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Developing novel methods for the analysis of intracellular signaling networks is essential for understanding interconnected biological processes that underlie complex human disorders. A fundamental goal of this research is to quantify the vulnerability of a signaling network to the dysfunction of one or multiple molecules, when the dysfunction is defined as an incorrect response to the input signals. In this study, we propose an efficient algorithm to identify the extreme signaling failures that can induce the most detrimental impact on the physiological function of a molecular network. The algorithm basically finds the molecules, or groups of molecules, with the maximum vulnerability, i.e., the highest probability of causing the network failure, when they are dysfunctional. We propose another algorithm that efficiently accounts for signaling feedbacks in this analysis. The algorithms are tested on two experimentally verified ERBB and T cell signaling networks. Surprisingly, results reveal that as the number of concurrently dysfunctional molecules increases, the maximum vulnerability values quickly reach to a plateau following an initial increase. This suggests the specificity of vulnerable molecule (s) involved, as a specific number of faulty molecules cause the most detrimental damage to the function of the network. Increasing a random number of simultaneously faulty molecules does not further deteriorate the function of the network. Such a group of specific molecules whose dysfunction causes the extreme signaling failures can better elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of complex trait disorders, and can offer new insights for the development of novel therapeutics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/44837446dd5803b6ccd1f7db8cd360ba78c35c9f" target='_blank'>Exploring Extreme Signaling Failures in Intracellular Molecular Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Ozen, E. Emamian, A. Abdi
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-21</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7821c67048fc640f87b6ba2e835a4f63ffa7ff71" target='_blank'>Identification of feedback loops embedded in cellular circuits by investigating non-causal impulse response components</a></td>
          <td>
            Chao-yi Dong, T. Yoon, D. Bates, Kwang-Hyun Cho
          </td>
          <td>2010-02-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Mathematical Biology</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>44</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cellular proccess that are crucial for health or disease are orchestrated by the expression of multiple genes in a network of differential complex signaling pathways, consisting of many physical and functional interactions.Unlike the stable genome structure, the highly dynamic interactome represents a major challenge for quantitative mapping of protein–protein interactions (PPIs). In this article, I will discuss the latest systems science advances by using breakthrough technologies to gain an understanding of the whole picture of the spatiotemporal signaling network as a response to dynamic individual genome–lifestyle interactions and translating it to the clinic.Biological signals control cells’ functions and their organization into tissues, organs and a whole organism’s homeostasis. A variety of extracellular and intracellu-lar signaling molecules include hormones, growth factors, cytokines, chemokines, neurotransmitters, extracellular matrix components, receptors, protein kinases, protein phosphatases and DNA-binding proteins in the nucleus. A signal is trans-mitted or amplified from the cell mem-brane to the nucleus through a dynamic complex interactions network">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2702c101690829e49078cf33e2ee81dc4f49e616" target='_blank'>Differential signaling transduction networks for clinical robustness</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Roukos
          </td>
          <td>2012-04-01</td>
          <td>Expert Review of Proteomics</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Operating regimes characterizing the input-output behaviour of an activated phosphorylation-dephosphorylation reaction cycle (PdPC) such as a single MAPK cascade are dictated by the saturated/unsaturated state of the two underlying enzymatic reactions. Four combinations of the states of these two enzymatic reactions led to identification of distinct operating regimes, viz., Hyperbolic (H), Signal transducing (ST), Threshold-hyperbolic (TH) and Ultrasensitive (U). A single PdPC without an explicit feedback have been classically viewed as a module offering signal flow from upstream to downstream, that is, one-way communication. Recently it has been shown that load due to sequestration of the phosphorylated or unphosphorylated form of the substrate by corresponding downstream targets permits retroactive signalling that offers two-way communication. We systematically characterize the operating regimes of a single PdPC subject to retroactivity in either of the substrate forms. We identify five possible regime transitions that could be achieved by increasing the retroactivity strength on either of the two substrate forms. Remarkably, a retroactivity strength of 0.30 in the unphosphorylated form of the substrate is sufficient to induce a transition from ST to H regime indicating that the input-output behaviour of a PdPC is highly sensitive to the presence of a downstream load. Using sensitivity and rate-balance analysis, we show that modulation of the saturation levels of the two enzymatic reactions by increasing retroactivity is the fundamental mechanism governing operating regime transition. Highlights Characterization of operating regimes in the presence of retroactivity. Retroactivity can induce a transition between different operating regimes. Saturation levels of the two enzymatic reactions govern the regime transition. Sensitivity of the protein levels to retroactivity is dictated by saturation levels.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b4d027423ced733f8825b5661c384cf2168e2289" target='_blank'>Retroactivity induced operating regime transition in a phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle</a></td>
          <td>
            Akshay N. Parundekar, G. Viswanathan
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-02</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Biochemical networks, including those containing signaling pathways, display a wide range of regulatory properties. These include the ability to propagate information across different time scales and to function as switches and oscillators. The mechanisms underlying these complex behaviors involve many interacting components and cannot be understood by experiments alone. The development of computational models and the integration of these models with experiments provide valuable insight into these complex systems-level behaviors. Here we review current approaches to the development of computational models of biochemical networks and describe the insights gained from models that integrate experimental data, using three examples that deal with ultrasensitivity, flexible bistability and oscillatory behavior. These types of complex behavior from relatively simple networks highlight the necessity of using theoretical approaches in understanding higher order biological functions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7892da387cb63b94afbe9f7c3bc0d0b71be6c4c2" target='_blank'>Modeling Signaling Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Susana R. Neves, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>2002-12-01</td>
          <td>Science</td>
          <td>131</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cell growth critically depends on signalling pathways whose regulation is the focus of intense research. Without utilizing a priori knowledge of the relative importance of pathway components, we have applied in silico computational methods to the EGF-induced MAPK cascade. Specifically, we systematically perturbed the entire parameter space, including initial conditions, using a Monte Carlo approach, and investigate which protein components or kinetic reaction steps contribute to the differentiation of ERK responses. The model, based on previous work by Brightman and Fell (2000), is composed of 28 reactions, 27 protein molecules, and 48 parameters from both mass action and Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Our multi-parametric systems analysis confirms that Raf inactivation is one of the key steps regulating ERK responses to be either transient or sustained. Furthermore, the results of amplitude-differential ERK phosphorylations within the transient case are mainly attributed to the balance between activation and inactivation of Ras while duration-differential ERK responses for the sustained case are, in addition to Ras, markedly affected by dephospho-/phosphorylation of both MEK and ERK. Our sub-module perturbations showed that MEK and ERK's contribution to this differential ERK activation originates from fluctuations in intermediate pathway module components such as Ras and Raf, implicating a cooperative regulatory mode among the key components. The initial protein concentrations of corresponding reactions such as Ras, GAP, and Raf also influence the distinct signalling outputs of ERK activation. We then compare these results with those obtained from a single-parametric perturbation approach using an overall state sensitivity (OSS) analysis. The OSS findings indicate a more pronounced role of ERK's inhibitory feedback effect on catalysing the dissociation of the SOS complex. Both approaches reveal the presence of multiple specific reactions involved in the distinct dynamics of ERK responses and the cell fate decisions they trigger. This work adds a mechanistic insight of the contribution of key pathway components, thus may support the identification of biomarkers for pharmaceutical drug discovery processes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c0951d8155ada6c35ec896fb6208894bfd088af2" target='_blank'>Investigating Differential Dynamics of the MAPK Signaling Cascade Using a Multi-Parametric Global Sensitivity Analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Jeongah Yoon, T. Deisboeck
          </td>
          <td>2009-02-23</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>40</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Biochemical networks related to similar functional pathways are often correlated due to cross-talk among the homologous proteins in the different networks. Using a stochastic framework, we address the functional significance of the cross-talk between two pathways. Our theoretical analysis on generic MAPK pathways reveals cross-talk is responsible for developing coordinated fluctuations between the pathways. The extent of correlation evaluated in terms of the information theoretic measure provides directionality to net information propagation. Stochastic time series and scattered plot suggest that the cross-talk generates synchronization within a cell as well as in a cellular population. Depending on the number of input and output, we identify signal integration and signal bifurcation motif that arise due to inter-pathway connectivity in the composite network. Analysis using partial information decomposition quantifies the net synergy in the information propagation through these branched pathways.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8c0ebb8b35dda6d869dfe84cf69e0ed74fdc8b95" target='_blank'>Information Theoretical Study of Cross-Talk Mediated Signal Transduction in MAPK Pathways</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Maity, P. Chaudhury, S. Banik
          </td>
          <td>2015-10-16</td>
          <td>Entropy</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cellular signaling pathways are responsible for decision making that sustains life. Most signaling pathways include post-translational modification cycles, that process multiple inputs and are tightly interconnected. Here we consider a model for phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycles, and we show that under some assumptions they can operate as molecular neurons or perceptrons, that generate sigmoidal-like activation functions by processing sums of inputs with positive and negative weights. We carry out a steady-state and structural stability analysis for single molecular perceptrons as well as for feedforward interconnections, concluding that interconnected phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycles may work as multi-layer biomolecular neural networks (BNNs) with the capacity to perform a variety of computations. As an application, we design signaling networks that behave as linear and non-linear classifiers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5112a01219843c2f6335c66b9a2bda740eb41fe2" target='_blank'>Signaling-based neural networks for cellular computation</a></td>
          <td>
            Christian Cuba Samaniego, Andrew Moorman, Giulia Giordano, Elisa Franco
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-10</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>