---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-21 10:42:23 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Ultrasensitivity in the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade.</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="For more than a decade, the MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) cascade has been studied using mathematical modelling and quantitative experimentation [1]. The MAPK cascade relays the presence of extracellular stimuli such as growth hormones to the nucleus and controls the expression of hundreds of genes. MAPKs control major cell fate decisions such as proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis, mainly by inducing alterations in gene expression. In this chapter, we discuss how systems biology analysis provides insights into the functioning of this cascade. We show how this pathway assists the cell in responding properly to extracellular cues by filtering out sub-threshold stimuli, while efficiently transmitting physiologically relevant inputs. Several different receptors signal through the MAPK pathway even though they elicit opposite biological responses, thus raising the question of how specificity is achieved in MAPK signalling. Experimental studies revealed that specific biological responses are encoded by quantitative aspects of the MAPK signal such as amplitude or duration. We discuss mechanisms that enable the pathway to generate quantitatively different signals, and also explain how different signals are interpreted by the downstream gene expression machinery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6240690e740bb11ac1d42f43f91ffcfad059dbaf" target='_blank'>Systems analysis of MAPK signal transduction.</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Blüthgen, S. Legewie
          </td>
          <td>2008-09-30</td>
          <td>Essays in biochemistry</td>
          <td>68</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/da87720f4767a44da3f92e497492607a5e8a082c" target='_blank'>When kinases meet mathematics: the systems biology of MAPK signalling</a></td>
          <td>
            W. Kolch, Muffy Calder, David R. Gilbert
          </td>
          <td>2005-03-21</td>
          <td>FEBS Letters</td>
          <td>190</td>
          <td>86</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mitogen‐activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades process a myriad of stimuli received by cell‐surface receptors and generate precise spatiotemporal guidance for multiple target proteins, dictating receptor‐specific cellular outcomes. Computational modeling reveals that the intrinsic topology of MAPK cascades enables them to amplify signal sensitivity and amplitude, reduce noise, and display intricate dynamic properties, which include toggle switches, excitation pulses, and oscillations. Specificity of signaling responses can be brought about by signal‐induced feedback and feedforward wiring imposed on the MAPK cascade backbone. Intracellular gradients of protein activities arise from the spatial separation of opposing reactions in kinase‐phosphatase cycles. The membrane confinement of the initiating kinase in MAPK cascades and cytosolic localization of phosphatases can result in precipitous gradients of phosphorylated signal‐transducers if they spread solely by diffusion. Endocytotic trafficking of active kinases driven by molecular motors and traveling waves of protein phosphorylation can propagate phosphorylation signals from the plasma membrane to the nucleus, especially in large cells, such as Xenopus eggs. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/549f0ea398377e29460e84284cf31387d6568803" target='_blank'>Four‐dimensional dynamics of MAPK information‐processing systems</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Kholodenko, M. Birtwistle
          </td>
          <td>2009-07-01</td>
          <td>Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/19ea531f407b034c82262a3c743a3f5575d55e9b" target='_blank'>Quantitative analysis of signaling networks.</a></td>
          <td>
            Herbert M. Sauro, B. Kholodenko
          </td>
          <td>2004-09-01</td>
          <td>Progress in biophysics and molecular biology</td>
          <td>213</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is considered to be a central block in many biological signaling networks. Despite the common core cascade structure, the activation of MAPK in different biological systems can exhibit different types of dynamic behaviors. Computer modeling may help to reveal the mechanisms underlying such variations. However, so far most computational models of the MAPK cascade have been system-specific, or to reflect a particular type among the wide spectrum of possible dynamics. To obtain a general and integrated view of the relationship between the dynamics of MAPK activation and the structures and parameters of the MAPK cascade, we constructed a generic model by comparing previous models covering different specific biological systems. We assumed that reliable qualitative results could be predicted through a qualitative model with pseudo parameters. We used randomly sampled parameters instead of a specific set of “best-fit” parameters to avoid biases towards any particular systems. A range of dynamics behaviors for MAPK activation, including ultrasensitivity, bistability, transient activation and oscillation, were successfully predicted by the generic model. The results indicated that the steady state dynamics (ultrasensitivity and bistability) was jointly determined by the three-tiered structure of the MAPK cascade and the competitive substrate binding in the dual-phosphorylation processes of the central components, while the temporal dynamics (transient activation and oscillation) was mainly affected by the upstream signaling pathway and feedbacks. Moreover, MAPK kinase (MAPKK) played more important roles than the other two components in determining the dynamics of MAPK activation. We hypothesize that this is an important and advantageous property for the regulation and for the functional diversity of MAPK pathways in real cells. Finally, to assist developing generic models for signaling motifs through model comparisons, we proposed a reaction-based database to make the model data more flexible and interoperable.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/558a5c17bf4b19875b0696b35de9a583a6c40956" target='_blank'>Random Parameter Sampling of a Generic Three-Tier MAPK Cascade Model Reveals Major Factors Affecting Its Versatile Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhong Mai, Haiyan Liu
          </td>
          <td>2013-01-24</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/75fd6027d52e75c27e75990da11221684c3f5f16" target='_blank'>Attenuation of noise in ultrasensitive signaling cascades.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Thattai, A. van Oudenaarden
          </td>
          <td>2002-06-01</td>
          <td>Biophysical journal</td>
          <td>232</td>
          <td>76</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Signal transduction is a complex protein signaling process with a rich network of multifunctional interactions that occur in a non‐linear fashion. Mitogen‐activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction pathways regulate diverse cellular processes ranging from proliferation and differentiation to apoptosis. In mammals, out of five, there are three well characterized subfamilies of MAPKs ‐ ERKs (Extracellular signal‐regulated kinases), JNKs (c‐Jun N‐terminal kinases), and P38 kinases, and their activators, are implicated in human diseases and are targets for drug development. Kinase cascades in MAPK pathways mediate the sensing and processing of stimuli. To understand how cells makes decisions, the dynamic interactions of components of signaling cascades are important rather than just creating static maps. Based on enzyme kinetic reactions, we have developed a mathematical model to analyze the impact of the cross‐talks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades. Cross‐talks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades influence the activities of P38 kinases. Responses of the signals should be studied for network of kinase cascades by considering cross‐talks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ef12bcae9ca82339a744c3b732a8bd77d348ac39" target='_blank'>Computational prediction and analysis of impact of the cross‐talks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades</a></td>
          <td>
            Pandurangan Sundaramurthy, S. Gakkhar, R. Sowdhamini
          </td>
          <td>2009-01-12</td>
          <td>Bioinformation</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Ultrasensitive response motifs, capable of converting graded stimuli into binary responses, are well-conserved in signal transduction networks. Although it has been shown that a cascade arrangement of multiple ultrasensitive modules can enhance the system’s ultrasensitivity, how a given combination of layers affects a cascade’s ultrasensitivity remains an open question for the general case. Here, we introduce a methodology that allows us to determine the presence of sequestration effects and to quantify the relative contribution of each module to the overall cascade’s ultrasensitivity. The proposed analysis framework provides a natural link between global and local ultrasensitivity descriptors and it is particularly well-suited to characterize and understand mathematical models used to study real biological systems. As a case study, we have considered three mathematical models introduced by O’Shaughnessy et al. to study a tunable synthetic MAPK cascade, and we show how our methodology can help modelers better understand alternative models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7403ccb5aec77299b40b0d3202d94fc5b21a3656" target='_blank'>Ultrasensitivity in signaling cascades revisited: Linking local and global ultrasensitivity estimations</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Altszyler, A. Ventura, A. Colman-Lerner, A. Chernomoretz
          </td>
          <td>2016-08-29</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1b96f91fdaf6488b00740cdaddeb83e75ae7d6d9" target='_blank'>Bayesian System Identification of Molecular Cascades</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Yoshimoto, K. Doya
          </td>
          <td>2007-11-13</td>
          <td>MAG, DBLP</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>58</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="All cells receive and respond to signals from their environment, whether they live freely or are part of a tissue. Feedback loops are one among the interactions in signal-transduction cascades, in which the information from the downstream components is sent back to the upstream components of the system. Crosstalks between signal-transduction cascades are able to combine the information's received and processed to trigger the appropriate response. To understand how signaling networks make decisions, the dynamic interactions of proteins in the signal-transduction cascades are important rather than just creating static maps of pathways. Based on reaction kinetics, we have developed mathematical models to predict and analyze the impacts of the feedback loops in JNK cascades and the crosstalks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades. Feedback loops in JNK cascades and crosstalks between JNK and P38 kinase cascades plays the complementary roles in making the impacts on the activation of JNK and P38 kinases. JNK and P38 kinase cascades with feedbacks and crosstalks is a robust system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2880a4c0be242db0837a9696c152f250827dd584" target='_blank'>Dynamic Modeling and Simulation of JNK and P38 Kinase Cascades With Feedbacks and Crosstalks</a></td>
          <td>
            Pandurangan Sundaramurthy, S. Gakkhar
          </td>
          <td>2010-08-19</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on NanoBioscience</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The past decade has seen great advances in our understanding of the role of noise in gene regulation and the physical limits to signaling in biological networks. Here, we introduce the spectral method for computation of the joint probability distribution over all species in a biological network. The spectral method exploits the natural eigenfunctions of the master equation of birth – death processes to solve for the joint distribution of modules within the network, which then inform each other and facilitate calculation of the entire joint distribution. We illustrate the method on a ubiquitous case in nature: linear regulatory cascades. The efficiency of the method makes possible numerical optimization of the input and regulatory parameters, revealing design properties of, e.g., the most informative cascades. We find, for threshold regulation, that a cascade of strong regulations converts a unimodal input to a bimodal output, that multimodal inputs are no more informative than bimodal inputs, and that a chain of up-regulations outperforms a chain of down-regulations. We anticipate that this numerical approach may be useful for modeling noise in a variety of small network topologies in biology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/06ca9a13adae85c9981456aad2c6c767ee2063ed" target='_blank'>A stochastic spectral analysis of transcriptional regulatory cascades</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Walczak, A. Mugler, C. Wiggins
          </td>
          <td>2008-11-25</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</td>
          <td>64</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Many distinct signaling pathways allow the cell to receive, process, and respond to information. Often, components of different pathways interact, resulting in signaling networks. Biochemical signaling networks were constructed with experimentally obtained constants and analyzed by computational methods to understand their role in complex biological processes. These networks exhibit emergent properties such as integration of signals across multiple time scales, generation of distinct outputs depending on input strength and duration, and self-sustaining feedback loops. Feedback can result in bistable behavior with discrete steady-state activities, well-defined input thresholds for transition between states and prolonged signal output, and signal modulation in response to transient stimuli. These properties of signaling networks raise the possibility that information for "learned behavior" of biological systems may be stored within intracellular biochemical reactions that comprise signaling pathways.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b9de3b7150cc254356bd579ef99e0714c1f3b39a" target='_blank'>Emergent properties of networks of biological signaling pathways.</a></td>
          <td>
            U. Bhalla, R. Iyengar
          </td>
          <td>1999-01-15</td>
          <td>Science</td>
          <td>1645</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cellular proccess that are crucial for health or disease are orchestrated by the expression of multiple genes in a network of differential complex signaling pathways, consisting of many physical and functional interactions.Unlike the stable genome structure, the highly dynamic interactome represents a major challenge for quantitative mapping of protein–protein interactions (PPIs). In this article, I will discuss the latest systems science advances by using breakthrough technologies to gain an understanding of the whole picture of the spatiotemporal signaling network as a response to dynamic individual genome–lifestyle interactions and translating it to the clinic.Biological signals control cells’ functions and their organization into tissues, organs and a whole organism’s homeostasis. A variety of extracellular and intracellu-lar signaling molecules include hormones, growth factors, cytokines, chemokines, neurotransmitters, extracellular matrix components, receptors, protein kinases, protein phosphatases and DNA-binding proteins in the nucleus. A signal is trans-mitted or amplified from the cell mem-brane to the nucleus through a dynamic complex interactions network">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2702c101690829e49078cf33e2ee81dc4f49e616" target='_blank'>Differential signaling transduction networks for clinical robustness</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Roukos
          </td>
          <td>2012-04-01</td>
          <td>Expert Review of Proteomics</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modelling biological systems would be straightforward if we knew the structure of the model and the parameters governing their dynamics. For the overwhelming majority of biological processes, however, such parameter values are unknown and often impossible to measure directly. This means that we have to estimate or infer these parameters from observed data. Here we argue that it is also important to appreciate the uncertainty inherent in these estimates. We discuss a statistical approach--approximate Bayesian computation (ABC)--which allows us to approximate the posterior distribution over parameters and show how this can add insights into our understanding of the system dynamics. We illustrate the application of this approach and how the resulting posterior distribution can be analyzed in the context of the mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation cascade. Our analysis also highlights the added benefit of using the distribution of parameters rather than point estimates of parameter values when considering the notion of sloppy models in systems biology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b1284603181ae4fa6130b2bd26a4e595d7e4e1af" target='_blank'>The ABC of reverse engineering biological signalling systems.</a></td>
          <td>
            Maria Secrier, Tina Toni, M. Stumpf
          </td>
          <td>2009-11-12</td>
          <td>Molecular bioSystems</td>
          <td>54</td>
          <td>56</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Developing novel methods for the analysis of intracellular signaling networks is essential for understanding interconnected biological processes that underlie complex human disorders. A fundamental goal of this research is to quantify the vulnerability of a signaling network to the dysfunction of one or multiple molecules, when the dysfunction is defined as an incorrect response to the input signals. In this study, we propose an efficient algorithm to identify the extreme signaling failures that can induce the most detrimental impact on the physiological function of a molecular network. The algorithm basically finds the molecules, or groups of molecules, with the maximum vulnerability, i.e., the highest probability of causing the network failure, when they are dysfunctional. We propose another algorithm that efficiently accounts for signaling feedbacks in this analysis. The algorithms are tested on two experimentally verified ERBB and T cell signaling networks. Surprisingly, results reveal that as the number of concurrently dysfunctional molecules increases, the maximum vulnerability values quickly reach to a plateau following an initial increase. This suggests the specificity of vulnerable molecule (s) involved, as a specific number of faulty molecules cause the most detrimental damage to the function of the network. Increasing a random number of simultaneously faulty molecules does not further deteriorate the function of the network. Such a group of specific molecules whose dysfunction causes the extreme signaling failures can better elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of complex trait disorders, and can offer new insights for the development of novel therapeutics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/44837446dd5803b6ccd1f7db8cd360ba78c35c9f" target='_blank'>Exploring Extreme Signaling Failures in Intracellular Molecular Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Ozen, E. Emamian, A. Abdi
          </td>
          <td>2021-04-21</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulation models are extremely useful but can be difficult to construct. There are numerous biochemical cascades in the human body and simulation models would help our understanding of how they wo...">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e912c82708367092330ee152b5621f3431b266b4" target='_blank'>A tool to construct simulation models of biochemical cascades</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Liew, R. Kurt
          </td>
          <td>2017-09-01</td>
          <td>MAG, DBLP</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b06d234407efd97d798904ba97ebb9a73b5fb31e" target='_blank'>Methodologies for the modeling and simulation of biochemical networks, illustrated for signal transduction pathways: A primer</a></td>
          <td>
            Nesma ElKalaawy, A. Wassal
          </td>
          <td>2015-03-01</td>
          <td>Bio Systems</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e27fd5e7efae681fee3ea4b9690df821bfb674af" target='_blank'>Scaling-Up Signaling Pathway Analysis.</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Chaudhari, M. Staller
          </td>
          <td>2016-05-25</td>
          <td>Cell systems</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Signal transduction pathways are very complex biochemical networks that include a large number of vital biomolecules and chemical compounds whose activities are dependent on member(s) involved in the network under consideration as well as other networks. Modularized study of such networks will be more appropriate for deciphering the underlying mechanisms that control physiological behavior of cell(s). Here we have proposed an algorithm for modularizing signal transduction network which is applied to MAPK pathway of D. melanogaster and H. sapiens. The idea "a member whose activity is controlled by maximum number of other members in the network under consideration, tends to be the center of a module" is used to divide a network into different modules. These modules are created by taking a certain level of complexity c into account, i.e., in an expanding module, a member having more than c relations that lie outside the module, are ignored. Recursive modularization can create modules at different stages of various complexities that finally lead to convergence of the entire network into a single module">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f952e5620dae3eae38b5b53b30ed0d524112a48f" target='_blank'>MAPK Signaling Pathways and Their Recursive Modularization</a></td>
          <td>
            R. K. De, Losiana Nayak
          </td>
          <td>2006-11-21</td>
          <td>2006 15th International Conference on Computing</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Understanding the mechanisms of interactions within cells, tissues, and organisms is crucial to driving developments across biology and medicine. Mathematical modeling is an essential tool for simulating biological systems and revealing biochemical regulatory mechanisms. Building on experiments, mechanistic models are widely used to describe small-scale intracellular networks and uncover biochemical mechanisms in healthy and diseased states. The rapid development of high-throughput sequencing techniques and computational tools has recently enabled models that span multiple scales, often integrating signaling, gene regulatory, and metabolic networks. These multiscale models enable comprehensive investigations of cellular networks and thus reveal previously unknown disease mechanisms and pharmacological interventions. Here, we review systems biology models from classical mechanistic models to larger, multiscale models that integrate multiple layers of cellular networks. We introduce several examples of models of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, exercise, and cancer cell proliferation. Additionally, we discuss methods that increase the certainty and accuracy of model predictions. Integrating multiscale models has become a powerful tool for understanding disease and inspiring drug discoveries by incorporating omics data within the cell and across tissues and organisms.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1a7fab37fe01aceef3a9dc334362340575ecad64" target='_blank'>The evolution of systems biology and systems medicine: From mechanistic models to uncertainty quantification</a></td>
          <td>
            Lingxia Qiao, Ali Khalilimeybodi, Nathaniel Linden-Santangeli, P. Rangamani
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Networks of Signaling pathways provide a robust mechanism for cells to respond to various biological stimuli. In this paper we demonstrate cell adaptation through the viewpoint of an organizing principle between two interconnected pathways- MAPK and PKC. We use a multi-layered system representation of the pathways to determine the pathway components contributing to the adaptive behavior and coordination. The adaptation can be thought of as being manifested by a change in parameters of the coordinator. In silico experiments are conducted using MAPK/PKC mathematical model in literature to investigate the role of PLA2as a coordinator is reported here. Our results show that varying parameters of the coordinator not only activates the network of pathways where otherwise the pathway activity is very low, but also reveal the ability of the system to activate itself in the absence of the input, indicating relevance of the principle of bounded autonomy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b05bffc3e00de1eef8e2206dcd7c7aca7097059e" target='_blank'>From Networks to Systems to Complex Systems: A Signaling Pathway Coordination Case Study</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Soebiyanto, S. Sreenath, M. Mesarovic, O. Wolkenhauer
          </td>
          <td>2005-12-12</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the 44th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>52</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The EGF-induced MAP kinase cascade is one of the most important and best characterized networks in intracellular signalling. It has a vital role in the development and maturation of living organisms. However, when deregulated, it is involved in the onset of a number of diseases. Based on a computational model describing a “surface” and an “internalized” parallel route, we use systems biology techniques to characterize aspects of the network’s functional organization. We examine the re-organization of protein groups from low to high external stimulation, define functional groups of proteins within the network, determine the parameter best encoding for input intensity and predict the effect of protein removal to the system’s output response. Extensive functional re-organization of proteins is observed in the lower end of stimulus concentrations. As we move to higher concentrations the variability is less pronounced. 6 functional groups have emerged from a consensus clustering approach, reflecting different dynamical aspects of the network. Mutual information investigation revealed that the maximum activation rate of the two output proteins best encodes for stimulus intensity. Removal of each protein of the network resulted in a range of graded effects, from complete silencing to intense activation. Our results provide a new “vista” of the EGF-induced MAP kinase cascade, from the perspective of complex self-organizing systems. Functional grouping of the proteins reveals an organizational scheme contrasting the current understanding of modular topology. The six identified groups may provide the means to experimentally follow the dynamics of this complex network. Also, the vulnerability analysis approach may be used for the development of novel therapeutic targets in the context of personalized medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ccd7041af39a1cc5e66884c8aacd4b45fc5c205d" target='_blank'>Functional Aspects of the EGF-Induced MAP Kinase Cascade: A Complex Self-Organizing System Approach</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Kosmidis, V. Moschou, Georgios Ziogas, I. Boukovinas, M. Albani, N. Laskaris
          </td>
          <td>2014-11-05</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2e11be008ec977843b1cb817b501e744246a857b" target='_blank'>Modeling and Modifying Response of Biochemical Processes for Biocomputing and Biosensing Signal Processing</a></td>
          <td>
            Sergii Domanskyi, V. Privman
          </td>
          <td>2016-06-04</td>
          <td>arXiv: Molecular Networks</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cell growth critically depends on signalling pathways whose regulation is the focus of intense research. Without utilizing a priori knowledge of the relative importance of pathway components, we have applied in silico computational methods to the EGF-induced MAPK cascade. Specifically, we systematically perturbed the entire parameter space, including initial conditions, using a Monte Carlo approach, and investigate which protein components or kinetic reaction steps contribute to the differentiation of ERK responses. The model, based on previous work by Brightman and Fell (2000), is composed of 28 reactions, 27 protein molecules, and 48 parameters from both mass action and Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Our multi-parametric systems analysis confirms that Raf inactivation is one of the key steps regulating ERK responses to be either transient or sustained. Furthermore, the results of amplitude-differential ERK phosphorylations within the transient case are mainly attributed to the balance between activation and inactivation of Ras while duration-differential ERK responses for the sustained case are, in addition to Ras, markedly affected by dephospho-/phosphorylation of both MEK and ERK. Our sub-module perturbations showed that MEK and ERK's contribution to this differential ERK activation originates from fluctuations in intermediate pathway module components such as Ras and Raf, implicating a cooperative regulatory mode among the key components. The initial protein concentrations of corresponding reactions such as Ras, GAP, and Raf also influence the distinct signalling outputs of ERK activation. We then compare these results with those obtained from a single-parametric perturbation approach using an overall state sensitivity (OSS) analysis. The OSS findings indicate a more pronounced role of ERK's inhibitory feedback effect on catalysing the dissociation of the SOS complex. Both approaches reveal the presence of multiple specific reactions involved in the distinct dynamics of ERK responses and the cell fate decisions they trigger. This work adds a mechanistic insight of the contribution of key pathway components, thus may support the identification of biomarkers for pharmaceutical drug discovery processes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c0951d8155ada6c35ec896fb6208894bfd088af2" target='_blank'>Investigating Differential Dynamics of the MAPK Signaling Cascade Using a Multi-Parametric Global Sensitivity Analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Jeongah Yoon, T. Deisboeck
          </td>
          <td>2009-02-23</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>40</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Intracellular signaling pathways that share common components often elicit distinct physiological responses. In most cases, the biochemical mechanisms responsible for this signal specificity remain poorly understood. Protein scaffolds and cross-inhibition have been proposed as strategies to prevent unwanted cross-talk. Here, we report a mechanism for signal specificity termed “kinetic insulation.” In this approach signals are selectively transmitted through the appropriate pathway based on their temporal profile. In particular, we demonstrate how pathway architectures downstream of a common component can be designed to efficiently separate transient signals from signals that increase slowly over time. Furthermore, we demonstrate that upstream signaling proteins can generate the appropriate input to the common pathway component regardless of the temporal profile of the external stimulus. Our results suggest that multilevel signaling cascades may have evolved to modulate the temporal profile of pathway activity so that stimulus information can be efficiently encoded and transmitted while ensuring signal specificity.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/34f99baf2a3fce2ef002f0b3da1545674a8824cc" target='_blank'>Kinetic insulation as an effective mechanism for achieving pathway specificity in intracellular signaling networks</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Behar, H. Dohlman, T. Elston
          </td>
          <td>2007-10-09</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>54</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Dynamics adds to the complexity of signaling networks. The biochemical processes that control the responses of cells to changes in their internal or external environments form a complex interconnected network. The molecules that participate in these processes are diverse and dynamic, and the networks themselves are affected by the flow of information through them. With this appreciation of the complexity in signaling networks, Science Signaling highlights computational and experimental approaches to understanding both the macroscopic cellular response and the microscopic signaling network and its constituents and dynamics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8045d1bb90c38a9e81507bcbcfd412b519b768f7" target='_blank'>Focus Issue: Unraveling Signaling Complexity</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Gough, J. Foley
          </td>
          <td>2009-07-28</td>
          <td>Science Signaling</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The vertebrate unfolded protein response (UPR) is characterized by multiple interacting nodes among its three pathways, yet the logic underlying this regulatory complexity is unclear. To begin to address this issue, we created a computational model of the vertebrate UPR that was entrained upon and then validated against experimental data. As part of this validation, the model successfully predicted the phenotypes of cells with lesions in UPR signaling, including a surprising and previously unreported differential role for the eIF2α phosphatase GADD34 in exacerbating severe stress but ameliorating mild stress. We then used the model to test the functional importance of a feedforward circuit within the PERK/CHOP axis and of cross-regulatory control of BiP and CHOP expression. We found that the wiring structure of the UPR appears to balance the ability of the response to remain sensitive to endoplasmic reticulum stress and to be deactivated rapidly by improved protein-folding conditions. This model should serve as a valuable resource for further exploring the regulatory logic of the UPR.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4a9e9b8b22e891fc66d7f4565d6740af6a016346" target='_blank'>A data-entrained computational model for testing the regulatory logic of the vertebrate unfolded protein response</a></td>
          <td>
            Danilo R. Diedrichs, Javier A Gomez, Chun-Sing Huang, D. T. Rutkowski, Rodica Curtu
          </td>
          <td>2018-06-15</td>
          <td>Molecular Biology of the Cell</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/98c47eca070ef4fc936f0fdb8bd32925e209619e" target='_blank'>Self-consistent signal transduction analysis for modeling context-specific signaling cascades and perturbations</a></td>
          <td>
            John Cole
          </td>
          <td>2024-07-19</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The MAPK/ERK pathway is a major signal transduction system 
which regulates many fundamental cellular processes including the 
growth control and the cell death. As a result of these roles, it has 
a crucial importance in cancer as well as normal developmental processes. 
Therefore, it has been intensively studied resulting in a wealth 
of knowledge about its activation. It is also well documented that 
the activation kinetics of the pathway is crucial to determine the nature 
of the biological response. However, while individual biochemical 
steps are well characterized, it is still difficult to predict or even understand 
how the activation kinetics works. The aim of this paper is to 
estimate the stochastic rate constants of the MAPK/ERK network dynamics. 
Accordingly, taking a Bayesian approach, we combined underlying 
qualitative biological knowledge in several competing dynamic 
models via sets of quasireactions and estimated the stochastic rate constants 
of these reactions. Comparing the resulting estimates via the 
BIC and DIC criteria, we chose a biological model which includes 
EGFR degradation—Raf-MEK-ERK cascade without the involvement 
of RKIPs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b95333e86f6dedf8d887f0eb9ce6b90e186995ad" target='_blank'>Estimating Network Kinetics of the MAPK/ERK Pathway Using Biochemical Data</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Purutçuoğlu, E. Wit
          </td>
          <td>2012-11-28</td>
          <td>Mathematical Problems in Engineering</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating signal transduction in cellular signaling networks provides predictions of network dynamics by quantifying the changes in concentration and activity-level of the individual proteins. Since numerical values of kinetic parameters might be difficult to obtain, it is imperative to develop non-parametric approaches that combine the connectivity of a network with the response of individual proteins to signals which travel through the network. The activity levels of signaling proteins computed through existing non-parametric modeling tools do not show significant correlations with the observed values in experimental results. In this work we developed a non-parametric computational framework to describe the profile of the evolving process and the time course of the proportion of active form of molecules in the signal transduction networks. The model is also capable of incorporating perturbations. The model was validated on four signaling networks showing that it can effectively uncover the activity levels and trends of response during signal transduction process.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8d7b2f82278b1e0396626ed63f2da71203f1c000" target='_blank'>Nonparametric Simulation of Signal Transduction Networks with Semi-Synchronized Update</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Nassiri, A. Masoudi-Nejad, M. Jalili, A. Moeini
          </td>
          <td>2012-06-21</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract A kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs) bind multiple signaling proteins and have subcellular targeting domains that allow them to greatly impact cellular signaling. AKAPs localize, specify, amplify, and accelerate signal transduction within the cell by bringing signaling proteins together in space and time. AKAPs also organize higher-order network motifs such as feed forward and feedback loops that may create complex network responses, including adaptation, oscillation, and ultrasensitivity. Computational models have begun to provide an insight into how AKAPs regulate signaling dynamics and cardiovascular pathophysiology. Models of mitogen-activated protein kinase and epidermal growth factor receptor scaffolds have revealed additional design principles and new methods for representing signaling scaffolds mathematically. Coupling computational modeling with quantitative experimental approaches will be increasingly necessary for dissecting the diverse information processing functions performed by AKAP signaling complexes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/def404ce92aea068ec191a04eb36d8eafca030dd" target='_blank'>Bigger, Better, Faster: Principles and Models of AKAP Anchoring Protein Signaling</a></td>
          <td>
            Eric C Greenwald, J. Saucerman
          </td>
          <td>2011-11-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology</td>
          <td>35</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f1060162779f5ba10620f52dde0b038e896d35a8" target='_blank'>Mapping connections in signaling networks with ambiguous modularity</a></td>
          <td>
            Daniel Lill, Oleksii S. Rukhlenko, Anthony James Mc Elwee, E. Kashdan, J. Timmer, B. Kholodenko
          </td>
          <td>2019-05-23</td>
          <td>NPJ Systems Biology and Applications</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Different environmental stimuli often use the same set of signaling proteins to achieve very different physiological outcomes. The invasive growth and mating pathways in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae each employ a mitogen‐activated protein (MAP) kinase cascade that includes several common components (e.g. Ste11, Ste7), after which the pathways diverge leading to activation of different MAP kinases (Fus3 and Kss1, respectively). In order to determine how pathway specificity is achieved, we conducted a quantitative analysis of MAP kinase activity, and devised a series of six computational models that describe their behavior in vivo. As anticipated by one of the models, MAP kinase phosphorylation of shared pathway components results in diminished activation of one MAP kinase but not the other. These findings reveal how one MAP kinase can limit the activity of a competing MAP kinase and thereby ensure signal fidelity.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/00a0034a8b7b900ff225c7b67b37624a166b457e" target='_blank'>Modeling signal specificity by feedback inhibition</a></td>
          <td>
            Nan Hao, Necmettin Yildirim, S. Parnell, B. Errede, T. Elston, H. Dohlman
          </td>
          <td>2007-04-01</td>
          <td>The FASEB Journal</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>54</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>