---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-02-03 06:09:19 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Trauma in silico: Individual-specific mathematical models and virtual clinical populations</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Objectives:To familiarize clinicians with advances in computational disease modeling applied to trauma and sepsis. Data Sources:PubMed search and review of relevant medical literature. Summary:Definitions, key methods, and applications of computational modeling to trauma and sepsis are reviewed. Conclusions:Computational modeling of inflammation and organ dysfunction at the cellular, organ, whole-organism, and population levels has suggested a positive feedback cycle of inflammation → damage → inflammation that manifests via organ-specific inflammatory switching networks. This structure may manifest as multicompartment “tipping points” that drive multiple organ dysfunction. This process may be amenable to rational inflammation reprogramming.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/63506ffe18d1913612d2c4e90140b584f68dc370" target='_blank'>In Silico Modeling: Methods and Applications to Trauma and Sepsis</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz, T. Billiar
          </td>
          <td>2013-08-01</td>
          <td>Critical Care Medicine</td>
          <td>60</td>
          <td>140</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2bf46fce4c4db3d2e9e5cc49ec34579392d4c10c" target='_blank'>In Silico Trials and Personalized Therapy for Sepsis and Trauma</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz, J. Bartels, G. An
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-05</td>
          <td>Complex Systems and Computational Biology Approaches to Acute Inflammation</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/443bd3f7be52bf8b4446b258a034b16f3c3fab56" target='_blank'>Integrating Data-Driven and Mechanistic Models of the Inflammatory Response in Sepsis and Trauma</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Azhar, Qi Mi, C. Ziraldo, M. Buliga, G. Constantine, Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-05</td>
          <td>Complex Systems and Computational Biology Approaches to Acute Inflammation</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="ABSTRACT Trauma and hemorrhagic shock elicit an acute inflammatory response, predisposing patients to sepsis, organ dysfunction, and death. Few approved therapies exist for these acute inflammatory states, mainly due to the complex interplay of interacting inflammatory and physiological elements working at multiple levels. Various animal models have been used to simulate these phenomena, but these models often do not replicate the clinical setting of multiple overlapping insults. Mathematical modeling of complex systems is an approach for understanding the interplay among biological interactions. We constructed a mathematical model using ordinary differential equations that encompass the dynamics of cells and cytokines of the acute inflammatory response, as well as global tissue dysfunction. The model was calibrated in C57Bl/6 mice subjected to (1) various doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) alone, (2) surgical trauma, and (3) surgery + hemorrhagic shock. We tested the model's predictive ability in scenarios on which it had not been trained, namely, (1) surgery ± hemorrhagic shock + LPS given at times after the beginning of surgical instrumentation, and (2) surgery + hemorrhagic shock + bilateral femoral fracture. Software was created that facilitated fitting of the mathematical model to experimental data, as well as for simulation of experiments with various inflammatory challenges and associated variations (gene knockouts, inhibition of specific cytokines, etc.). Using this software, the C57Bl/6-specific model was recalibrated for inflammatory analyte data in CD14−/− mice and was used to elucidate altered features of inflammation in these animals. In other experiments, rats were subjected to surgical trauma ± LPS or to bacterial infection via fibrin clots impregnated with various inocula of Escherichia coli. Mathematical modeling may provide insights into the complex dynamics of acute inflammation in a manner that can be tested in vivo using many fewer animals than has been possible previously.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/533f6f01767372be23b4dd09ab5cc3b3ecbe12d8" target='_blank'>IN SILICO MODELS OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION IN ANIMALS</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz, C. Chow, J. Bartels, C. Lagoa, J. Prince, Ryan M. Levy, Rukmini Kumar, J. Day, J. Rubin, G. Constantine, T. Billiar, M. Fink, G. Clermont
          </td>
          <td>2006-09-01</td>
          <td>Shock</td>
          <td>112</td>
          <td>140</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Trauma/hemorrhagic shock followed by resuscitation (T/HS-R) results in multi-system inflammation and organ dysfunction, in part driven by binding of damage-associated molecular pattern molecules to Toll-like Receptor 4 (TLR4). We carried out experimental T/HS-R (pseudo-fracture plus 2 h of shock followed by 0-22 h of resuscitation) in C57BL/6 (wild type [WT]) and TLR4-null (TLR4-/-) mice, and then defined the dynamics of 20 protein-level inflammatory mediators in the heart, gut, lung, liver, spleen, kidney, and systemic circulation. Cross-correlation and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) on data from the 7 tissues sampled suggested that TLR4-/- samples express multiple inflammatory mediators in a small subset of tissue compartments as compared to the WT samples, in which many inflammatory mediators were localized non-specifically to nearly all compartments. We and others have previously defined a central role for type 17 immune cells in human trauma. Accordingly, correlations between IL-17A and GM-CSF (indicative of pathogenic Th17 cells); between IL-17A and IL-10 (indicative of non-pathogenic Th17 cells); and IL-17A and TNF (indicative of memory/effector T cells) were assessed across all tissues studied. In both WT and TLR4-/- mice, positive correlations were observed between IL-17A and GM-CSF, IL-10, and TNF in the kidney and gut. In contrast, the variable and dynamic presence of both pathogenic and non-pathogenic Th17 cells was inferred in the systemic circulation of TLR4-/- mice over time, suggesting a role for TLR4 in efflux of these cells into peripheral tissues. Hypergraph analysis – used to define dynamic, cross compartment networks – in concert with PCA-suggested that IL-17A was present persistently in all tissues at all sampled time points except for its absence in the plasma at 0.5h in the WT group, supporting the hypothesis that T/HS-R induces efflux of Th17 cells from the circulation and into specific tissues. These analyses suggest a complex, context-specific role for TLR4 and type 17 immunity following T/HS-R.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e163fc683001f45627206df83114b01c632c156a" target='_blank'>Inferring Tissue-Specific, TLR4-Dependent Type 17 Immune Interactions in Experimental Trauma/Hemorrhagic Shock and Resuscitation Using Computational Modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            A. M. Shah, R. Zamora, S. Korff, Derek A. Barclay, Jinling Yin, F. el-Dehaibi, T. Billiar, Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2022-05-19</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Immunology</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>140</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="SIGNIFICANCE
Traumatic injury elicits a complex, dynamic, multidimensional inflammatory response that is intertwined with complications such as multiple organ dysfunction and nosocomial infection. The complex interplay between inflammation and physiology in critical illness remains a challenge for translational research, including the extrapolation to human disease from animal models.


RECENT ADVANCES
Over the past decade, we and others have attempted to decipher the biocomplexity of inflammation in these settings of acute illness, using computational models to improve clinical translation. In silico modeling has been suggested as a computationally based framework for integrating data derived from basic biology experiments as well as preclinical and clinical studies.


CRITICAL ISSUES
Extensive studies in cells, mice, and human blunt trauma patients have led us to suggest (i) that while an adequate level of inflammation is required for healing post-trauma, inflammation can be harmful when it becomes self-sustaining via a damage-associated molecular pattern/Toll-like receptor-driven feed-forward circuit; (ii) that chemokines play a central regulatory role in driving either self-resolving or self-maintaining inflammation that drives the early activation of both classical innate and more recently recognized lymphoid pathways; and (iii) the presence of multiple thresholds and feedback loops, which could significantly affect the propagation of inflammation across multiple body compartments.


FUTURE DIRECTIONS
These insights from data-driven models into the primary drivers and interconnected networks of inflammation have been used to generate mechanistic computational models. Together, these models may be used to gain basic insights as well as serving to help define novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/69cc5487744cb715ed0dbb4bdfd136d3205243d5" target='_blank'>Insights into the Role of Chemokines, Damage-Associated Molecular Patterns, and Lymphocyte-Derived Mediators from Computational Models of Trauma-Induced Inflammation.</a></td>
          <td>
            Rami A. Namas, Qi Mi, R. Namas, K. Almahmoud, A. Zaaqoq, Othman Abdul-Malak, N. Azhar, J. Day, Andrew Abboud, R. Zamora, T. Billiar, Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2015-12-17</td>
          <td>Antioxidants & redox signaling</td>
          <td>71</td>
          <td>140</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Today, there is an ever-increasing amount of biological and clinical data available that could be used to enhance a systems-based understanding of disease progression through innovative computational analysis. In this article, we review a selection of published research regarding computational methods, primarily from systems biology, which support translational research from the molecular level to the bedside, with a focus on applications in trauma and critical care. Trauma is the leading cause of mortality in Americans younger than 45 years, and its rapid progression offers both opportunities and challenges for computational analysis of trends in molecular patterns associated with outcomes and therapeutic interventions. This review presents methods and domain-specific examples that may inspire the development of new algorithms and computational methods that use both molecular and clinical data for diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy in disease progression.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8593ed7997c12bf8ec30d6fc1b6f92a7ee3d13c1" target='_blank'>Computational Approaches for Translational Clinical Research in Disease Progression</a></td>
          <td>
            Mary F. McGuire, M. S. Iyengar, D. Mercer
          </td>
          <td>2011-08-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Investigative Medicine</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Objective:To determine the feasibility and potential usefulness of mathematical models in evaluating immunomodulatory strategies in clinical trials of severe sepsis. Design:Mathematical modeling of immunomodulation in simulated patients. Setting:Computer laboratory. Measurements and Main Results:We introduce and evaluate the concept of conducting a randomized clinical trial in silico based on simulated patients generated from a mechanistic mathematical model of bacterial infection, the acute inflammatory response, global tissue dysfunction, and a therapeutic intervention. Trial populations are constructed to reflect heterogeneity in bacterial load and virulence as well as propensity to mount and modulate an inflammatory response. We constructed a cohort of 1,000 trial patients submitted to therapy with one of three different doses of a neutralizing antibody directed against tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) for 6, 24, or 48 hrs. We present cytokine profiles over time and expected outcome for each cohort. We identify subgroups with high propensity for being helped or harmed by the proposed intervention and identify early serum markers for each of those subgroups. The mathematical simulation confirms the inability of simple markers to predict outcome of sepsis. The simulation clearly separates cases with favorable and unfavorable outcome on the basis of global tissue dysfunction. Control survival was 62.9% at 1 wk. Depending on dose and duration of treatment, survival ranged from 57.1% to 80.8%. Higher doses of anti-TNF, although effective, also result in considerable harm to patients. A statistical analysis based on a simulated cohort identified markers of favorable or adverse response to anti-TNF treatment. Conclusions:A mathematical simulation of anti-TNF therapy identified clear windows of opportunity for this intervention as well as populations that can be harmed by anti-TNF therapy. The construction of an in silico clinical trial could provide profound insight into the design of clinical trials of immunomodulatory therapies, ranging from optimal patient selection to individualized dosage and duration of proposed therapeutic interventions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b2f1d4ba3944ea5b58977dea5d2ca93cb230c579" target='_blank'>In silico design of clinical trials: A method coming of age</a></td>
          <td>
            G. Clermont, J. Bartels, Rukmini Kumar, G. Constantine, Y. Vodovotz, C. Chow
          </td>
          <td>2004-10-01</td>
          <td>Critical Care Medicine</td>
          <td>191</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systems biology is an approach that marries complimentary disciplines, encouraging the use of quantitative methods to help define, explain, and predict biological processes. By building computational models of biological systems, we can pose new biologically motivated questions and make falsifiable, quantitative predictions. In this thesis I will discuss the cycle of model building and experimental validation, and how it has provided insight into poorly and understood systems and allowed us to predict the effects of perturbations on these systems, which could have real and significant effects in human health and medicine. First, we model the activation of neutrophils in sepsis. By fitting a single model to two sets of data, coming from animals that survive and succumb to the same bacterial challenge, we create a realistic representation of biological variation, showing how a single network architecture can lead to different outcomes. Additionally, this method allows us to identify markers for sepsis susceptibility and identify and optimize a potential treatment option to lead to improved outcomes. Next, we model signaling downstream of the T cell receptor, and how this leads to differentiation decision making in CD4 T cells. By modeling the dynamics of this signaling network under varying antigen doses, we are able to identify network elements critical to dose discrimination, leading to the production of Treg cells following low dose stimulation and Th cells following high dose stimulation. We can then perturb these elements of the network, to potentially fine tune mature T cell populations to alter the trajectories of autoimmune disorders or cancer. Finally, we model the dynamics of IL-17 signaling. This allows us to understand how ubiquitin scaffolds form following cytokine stimulation, leading to the activation of NF-B, and how the ubiquitin editing enzyme A20 acts as a negative feedback regulator by breaking these chains. This allows us to better understand ubiquitin oligomerization as a fulcrum in the system, and how changes in A20 and ubiquitin binding proteins lead to different profiles of NF-B activation and could play a role in inflammatory disorders.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7c5de783dbb55c40e10e29aae4417239bfb08290" target='_blank'>Closing the loop: A combined computational modeling and experimental approach provides novel insights into immune cell signaling systems and their global effects.</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Sheehan
          </td>
          <td>2016-09-08</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systemic inflammatory response syndrome and its progression to multi-organ dysfunction syndrome represent a major challenge in the field of trauma and critical care medicine. This disease state is a product of disorders of the body’s natural response to injury. Attempts to treat this at a molecular level using information from basic science research have been unsuccessful, even detrimental. It is possible that this is due to a failure to account for the nonlinear, complex nature of the inflammatory response in formulating treatment regimes. It is proposed that agent-based computer simulation may be a way to characterize the dynamics of the inflammatory response. This article presents an abstract model of a generic tissue system. Modeling the inflammatory response as a nonlinear complex system may produce simulations that will shed light on the complex nature of the inflammatory response. In the future, more sophisticated simulations may provide a testing framework for designing and evaluating treatment regimes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b49e901da47c3ca3a0315f1aa144d4cd54a195f1" target='_blank'>Computer Simulation to Study Inflammatory Response</a></td>
          <td>
            G. An, Irene Lee
          </td>
          <td>2001-09-01</td>
          <td>Simulation & Gaming</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/504946670c9db85d2d1af84e26d75275095f3099" target='_blank'>Next-generation, personalised, model-based critical care medicine: a state-of-the art review of in silico virtual patient models, methods, and cohorts, and how to validation them</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Chase, J. Preiser, Jennifer L. Dickson, A. Pironet, Y. Chiew, C. Pretty, G. Shaw, B. Benyó, K. Moeller, Soroush Safaei, M. Tawhai, P. Hunter, T. Desaive, Geoff nz
          </td>
          <td>2018-02-20</td>
          <td>BioMedical Engineering OnLine</td>
          <td>148</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Sepsis, a manifestation of the body’s inflammatory response to injury and infection, has a mortality rate of between 28%-50% and affects approximately 1 million patients annually in the United States. Currently, there are no therapies targeting the cellular/molecular processes driving sepsis that have demonstrated the ability to control this disease process in the clinical setting. We propose that this is in great part due to the considerable heterogeneity of the clinical trajectories that constitute clinical “sepsis,” and that determining how this system can be controlled back into a state of health requires the application of concepts drawn from the field of dynamical systems. In this work, we consider the human immune system to be a random dynamical system, and investigate its potential controllability using an agent-based model of the innate immune response (the Innate Immune Response ABM or IIRABM) as a surrogate, proxy system. Simulation experiments with the IIRABM provide an explanation as to why single/limited cytokine perturbations at a single, or small number of, time points is unlikely to significantly improve the mortality rate of sepsis. We then use genetic algorithms (GA) to explore and characterize multi-targeted control strategies for the random dynamical immune system that guide it from a persistent, non-recovering inflammatory state (functionally equivalent to the clinical states of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) or sepsis) to a state of health. We train the GA on a single parameter set with multiple stochastic replicates, and show that while the calculated results show good generalizability, more advanced strategies are needed to achieve the goal of adaptive personalized medicine. This work evaluating the extent of interventions needed to control a simplified surrogate model of sepsis provides insight into the scope of the clinical challenge, and can serve as a guide on the path towards true “precision control” of sepsis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e78bfc780106f71cd4178b09088c3fbf70a8b06a" target='_blank'>Examining the controllability of sepsis using genetic algorithms on an agent-based model of systemic inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            Chase Cockrell, G. An
          </td>
          <td>2018-02-01</td>
          <td>PLoS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>50</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Objectives:To introduce a form of mathematical modeling, agent-based modeling (ABM), and demonstrate its potential uses in the evaluation of the dynamics of the innate immune response (IIR) and the development of possible treatments for systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)/multiple organ failure (MOF). Rationale:The IIR can be categorized as a complex system that responds to interventions in a nonintuitive fashion, leading to difficulty in translating basic science knowledge into effective treatments for SIRS/MOF. It is proposed that ABM is particularly well suited to examining the complex interactions of the IIR and its disordered states of SIRS/MOF. Study Design:Computer simulation and mathematical modeling. Data Source:Review articles on components and mechanisms involved in the IIR. Published results from phase III anticytokine/mediator trials. Published results from smaller clinical trials and animal studies. Main Results:An abstract ABM of the IIR was created. The model reproduces the general behavior of the IIR with respect to outcome and cause of system “death.” Patterns of levels of individual cytokines matched patterns of measured cytokines reported in the existing literature. Clinical trials of anticytokine therapy were simulated and produced outcomes qualitatively similar to those reported in the literature. A series of hypothetical treatment regimes (variation of dose and length of treatment [anti-tumor necrosis factor and anti-interleukin-1], anti-CD-18, and multiple-drug regimes [combination of anti-tumor necrosis factor, anti-interleukin-1, and anti-CD-18]) were formulated and implemented in the ABM. None of the simulated therapies showed a statistically significant improvement in system mortality. Conclusions:Presented herein is an abstracted ABM of the IIR. This model is intended primarily as an introduction to and demonstration of this technique. However, even this relatively simple model demonstrates counterintuitive system responses and the difficulty of effectively manipulating a complex system like the IIR. ABM may provide a synthetic, analytical platform to integrate basic science data on the IIR, thus eventually aiding in formulating and testing future mediator-directed therapies for SIRS/MOF before clinical trials, and it may provide insights into directions of future research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3673c66a1eb6ecea61cd55614fad12d7a17637fb" target='_blank'>In silico experiments of existing and hypothetical cytokine-directed clinical trials using agent-based modeling*</a></td>
          <td>
            G. An
          </td>
          <td>2004-10-01</td>
          <td>Critical Care Medicine</td>
          <td>217</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bdba71c8198592733c2f3c0e94873428e96682cb" target='_blank'>Advancing therapies for viral infections using mechanistic computational models of the dynamic interplay between the virus and host immune response</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Zarnitsyna, J. F. Gianlupi, A. Hagar, T. Sego, J. Glazier
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-24</td>
          <td>Current Opinion in Virology</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Organoids are three-dimensional cellular structures resembling human organs, which have emerged as valuable tools for studying organ development, disease modeling, and drug discovery. Integrating multiple organoid systems allows for the examination of complex interactions between different organs. In this study, we present the development and initial validation of the aiHumanoid simulation, an advanced AI-based computational framework that integrates 18 individual organoid simulations through a common cardiovascular system. Our aim is to investigate the systemic effects of gram-negative sepsis, a life-threatening condition that affects multiple organ systems. In this study, we evaluated the impact of gram-negative sepsis on the organoid systems that make up the aiHumanoid simulation. Our findings indicate significant alterations in cardiovascular, nervous system, respiratory, renal, hepatic, hematologic, gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, immune, and endocrine parameters in both male and female sepsis-affected organoids. Notably, markers of inflammation, coagulation, renal dysfunction, liver damage, immune response, and endocrine regulation were significantly affected by sepsis. While some parameters showed gender-specific differences in response, such as hormonal changes, the overall impact of gram-negative sepsis was observed in both sexes. This study demonstrates the potential of the aiHumanoid to accurately simulate the systemic effects of diseases on various organ systems. The integration of computational simulations with organoid systems offers a powerful approach for understanding disease mechanisms and evaluating potential therapies. By providing a more efficient and physiologically relevant platform for drug testing, the aiHumanoid simulation has the potential to accelerate the drug development process, reduce costs, and minimize the need for animal testing. Further research and ongoing validation will be crucial to fully exploit the capabilities of this revolutionary computational framework for advancing disease modeling and therapeutic interventions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f2a46702dfd8354f55d60b5f233eecd15d5b2deb" target='_blank'>An aiHumanoid Simulation of Gram-Negative Sepsis: A Comprehensive Multi-Organoid Platform for Advanced Disease Modeling, Drug Discovery, and Personalized Medicine</a></td>
          <td>
            W. Danter
          </td>
          <td>2023-07-19</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>6</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="With the advent of effective immunotherapies to battle cancers and diseases, an obstacle in recovery has become the potential side effects, specifically cytokine release syndrome (CRS). As there is little quantitative understanding of risks for developing CRS and the degree of its severity, this work explored a model-based approach to produce a library of in silico patients through sensitivity analysis of cytokine interaction parameters and a Monte Carlo sampling. The objective of producing the in silico patients was to correlate a known grading system of cytokine release syndrome severity and thus design a new formula for grading CRS. Using our CRS grading system as the foundation, this work produced not only a formula which related the in silico patient data to the different grades, but we effectively demonstrated a selective approach to reduce the grade of CRS with sequential cytokine inhibition targets. We achieved the reduction of grades by applying the insight from the sensitivity analysis, beginning with the most sensitive targets. Cytokines IL-1, IL-8, TNF-α, INF-γ, IL-6, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-12 were in turn the best targets for inhibition to alleviate CRS. Using this approach, patient cytokine time profiles in real-time can be related to the CRS grading system and if the grade is severe enough, action can be taken earlier during the treatment to prevent potentially life-threatening symptoms. What’s more, the identified inhibition sequence of the 9 cytokines provides guidance for clinical intervention of CRS.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cdbed3634ba13aed3fc2c3d954812638cfe069fa" target='_blank'>A Model-Based Investigation of Cytokine Dynamics in Immunotherapies</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Hopkins, Yiming Pan, M. Tucker, Z. Huang
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-30</td>
          <td>Processes</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 COVID-19 is a disease that results from infection with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The disease is often complicated by cytokine storm and/or a coagulopathy These two complications appear to be responsible for much of the increased mortality seen in severe COVID-19. While available treatment options including systemic corticosteroids and heparin have been beneficial in some ventilator dependent patients, mortality rates remain excessive. Several clinical trials using previously approved drugs and drug combinations are urgently underway to improve the current situation. The primary purpose of this project was to evaluate the DeepNEU stem-cell simulation platform by creating and validating computer simulations of artificial lung cells infected with SARS-CoV-2 to enable rapid identification of therapeutic targets and drug repurposing for specifically treating both the cytokine storm and coagulopathy associated with severe COVID-19. The data generated from this project confirm that (1) COVID-19 can be simulated in human alveolar type lung cells infected with SARS-CoV-2, (2) these simulated lung cells can develop features of the cytokine storm and coagulopathy that often complicate severe COVID-19, (3) the unsupervised machine learning system performed well in all COVID-19 simulations based on available published wet lab data and (4) the platform successfully identified potentially effective double drug combinations for both COVID-19 associated cytokine storm and coagulopathy for urgent clinical study. We conclude that while DeepNEU (v5.0) requires further validation, it is very likely that the most important application of this machine learning platform will be to improve our preparedness for serious future viral outbreaks and their life-threatening complications.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4a18cbf3eab59c0e2d9a17e9369559b0922c92b4" target='_blank'>DeepNEU: a machine learning platform for simulating Cytokine Storm and Coagulopathy that complicate severe COVID-19 to enable targeted drug repurposing</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Esmail, W. Danter
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-05</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The acute inflammatory response is a complex defense mechanism that has evolved to respond rapidly to injury, infection, and other disruptions in homeostasis. The complex role of inflammation in health and disease has made it difficult to understand comprehensively. With the advent of high throughput technologies and the growth of systems biology, there has been an unprecedented amount of data and –omics analysis aimed at uncovering this complexity. However, there still remains a shortage of translational insights for acute inflammatory diseases from these studies. In this dissertation, we employ a comprehensive systems approach in order to study the coordination of inflammation and identify key control mechanisms, and how these map onto clinical outcomes. This process begins with collection of high-dimensional time course data of inflammatory mediators, followed by data-driven modeling and network inference that finally informs mechanistic computational models for prediction and analysis. In patients with pediatric acute liver failure (PALF), we inferred inflammatory networks and identified key differences between patients that were survivors versus non-survivors when other analyses proved inconclusive. We showed that inflammatory networks can be used both as biomarkers and to generate mechanistic hypotheses for this poorly understood disease. In experimental models of trauma as well as in human trauma patients, we identify a conserved central network motif of cross-regulating chemokines. We develop a logical model based on this hypothesized network, which is able to capture both inflammatory trajectory and clinical outcome differences among patients with differing injury severity. These studies suggest that the hypothesized cross-regulatory interactions among chemokines MIG, IP-10 and MCP-1 represents an important point of control regulating the progression of acute inflammation. We propose that further analysis and validation of this hypothesis will require targeted perturbation studies in cells and animals with iterative rounds of mechanistic model refinement. We explore an example of such a study focused on the anti-inflammatory effects of NAD+, wherein we characterize a signaling pathway that gives rise to a complex dose and time dependent induction of TGF-β1.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/35936e5a329a1b72124bba62c9eec2eca58159c5" target='_blank'>Computational modeling of inflammatory mediators in acute illness: From networks to mechanisms</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Azhar
          </td>
          <td>2014-08-29</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9567528d3e57d85032a1bc54a9caf8aef234cb94" target='_blank'>Towards systems immunology of critical illness at scale: from single cell 'omics to digital twins.</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-01</td>
          <td>Trends in immunology</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0677c414ebdf053b6f4cdf51faf55d276134a4bf" target='_blank'>Reverse Engineering the Inflammatory "Clock": From Computational Modeling to Rational Resetting.</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2016-12-01</td>
          <td>Drug discovery today. Disease models</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mathematical modeling has made significant contributions to drug design, development, and optimization. Virtual clinical trials that integrate mathematical models to explore patient heterogeneity and its impact on a variety of therapeutic questions have recently risen in popularity. Here, we outline best practices for creating virtual patients from mathematical models to ultimately implement and execute a virtual clinical trial. In this practical guide, we discuss and provide examples of model design, parameter estimation, parameter sensitivity, model identifiability, and virtual patient cohort creation. Our goal is to help researchers adopt these approaches to further the use of virtual population-based analysis and virtual clinical trials.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6f59d303a0d7b1ae764d5c0f77fb1afbc5f25da0" target='_blank'>A practical guide for the generation of model-based virtual clinical trials</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Craig, J. Gevertz, I. Kareva, K. Wilkie
          </td>
          <td>2023-06-16</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Systems Biology</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Digital twins are computational models of complex systems, which aim to understand and optimize those systems more effectively than would be possible in real life. Ideally, digital twins can be translated to individual patients, to characterize and computationally treat their diseases with thousands of drugs, to select the drug or drugs that cure the patients. The background problem is that many patients do not respond adequately to drug treatment. This problem reflects a wide gap between the complexity of diseases and clinical practice. Each disease may involve altered interactions between thousands of genes that vary between different cell types in different organs. To our knowledge, these altered interactions have not been characterized on a genome-, cellulome-, and organ-wide scale in any disease. Thus, clinical translation of the digital twin ideal for predictive, preventive, personalized and participatory treatment involves formidable challenges, which are close to the limits of, or beyond today's technologies. Here, I discuss recent developments and challenges in relation to that ideal focusing on immune-mediated inflammatory diseases, as well as examples from other diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/046005959d52420484ac7499efe6a496943efe38" target='_blank'>Digital Twins for Predictive, Preventive Personalized, and Participatory Treatment of Immune-Mediated Diseases.</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Benson
          </td>
          <td>2023-01-26</td>
          <td>Arteriosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a5476f60a1b993c2a8839dea732da58040d16c13" target='_blank'>From virtual patients to digital twins in immuno-oncology: lessons learned from mechanistic quantitative systems pharmacology modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            Hanwen Wang, Theinmozhi Arulraj, Alberto Ippolito, Aleksander S. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2024-07-16</td>
          <td>NPJ Digital Medicine</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4a49ed34fde054dd90f0f077ad49d6b9bd9874d7" target='_blank'>Concepts for developing a collaborative in silico model of the acute inflammatory response using agent-based modeling.</a></td>
          <td>
            G. An
          </td>
          <td>2006-03-01</td>
          <td>Journal of critical care</td>
          <td>66</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Quantitative systems pharmacology models mechanistically describe a biological system and the effect of drug treatment on system behavior. Because these models rarely are identifiable from the available data, the uncertainty in physiological parameters may be sampled to create alternative parameterizations of the model, sometimes termed ‘Virtual Patients.’ In order to reproduce the statistics of a clinical population, Virtual Patients are often weighted to form a Virtual Population that reflects the baseline characteristics of the clinical cohort. Here we introduce a novel technique to efficiently generate Virtual Patients and, from this ensemble, demonstrate how to select a Virtual Population that matches the observed data without the need for weighting. This approach improves confidence in model predictions by mitigating the risk that spurious Virtual Patients become over-represented in Virtual Populations.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/24682c3ba6c0856f7bd3cef71055d02b8b81ec64" target='_blank'>Efficient Generation and Selection of Virtual Populations in Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Models</a></td>
          <td>
            RJ Allen, TR Rieger, CJ Musante
          </td>
          <td>2015-10-06</td>
          <td>CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology</td>
          <td>144</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Virtual patients and digital patients/twins are two similar concepts gaining increasing attention in health care with goals to accelerate drug development and improve patients' survival, but with their own limitations. Although methods have been proposed to generate virtual patient populations using mechanistic models, there are limited number of applications in immuno-oncology research. Furthermore, due to the stricter requirements of digital twins, they are often generated in a study-specific manner with models customized to particular clinical settings (e.g., treatment, cancer, and data types). Here, we discuss the challenges for virtual patient generation in immuno-oncology with our most recent experiences, initiatives to develop digital twins, and how research on these two concepts can inform each other.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ba79f86552cad2bb9dae7c8558a9879f9dd6159f" target='_blank'>From virtual patients to digital twins in immuno-oncology: lessons learned from mechanistic quantitative systems pharmacology modeling.</a></td>
          <td>
            Hanwen Wang, Theinmozhi Arulraj, Alberto Ippolito, Aleksander S. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-05</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Virtual patients and digital patients/twins are two similar concepts gaining increasing attention in health care with goals to accelerate drug development and improve patients' survival, but with their own limitations. Although methods have been proposed to generate virtual patient populations using mechanistic models, there are limited number of applications in immuno-oncology research. Furthermore, due to the stricter requirements of digital twins, they are often generated in a study-specific manner with models customized to particular clinical settings (e.g., treatment, cancer, and data types). Here, we discuss the challenges for virtual patient generation in immuno-oncology with our most recent experiences, initiatives to develop digital twins, and how research on these two concepts can inform each other.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ba79f86552cad2bb9dae7c8558a9879f9dd6159f" target='_blank'>From virtual patients to digital twins in immuno-oncology: lessons learned from mechanistic quantitative systems pharmacology modeling.</a></td>
          <td>
            Hanwen Wang, Theinmozhi Arulraj, Alberto Ippolito, Aleksander S. Popel
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-05</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Sepsis, the body’s inflammatory response to infection, is a serious complication and leading cause of in-hospital mortality. Timely intervention is both difficult and critical since sepsis can rapidly worsen to organ dysfunction and septic shock. However, the lack of a gold-standard definition renders the lines between these transitions unclear, complicating medical decision-making. Using electronic health records, we build a simulation framework to study the evolution of dynamic physiological and cellular responses to therapeutic interventions in septic patients. Since sepsis trajectories can manifest differently depending on patient characteristics, we incorporate patient heterogeneity through comorbidity, age, race, and gender. Under therapeutic interventions recommended by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), we illustrate the framework on patient trajectories using the CMS criteria for sepsis definition. The framework is designed to support the comparison and quantification of the impact of clinical definitions and recommended interventions on the timely identification of sepsis states.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c44ab7725a5ff1698104e88ee4edab0d694e0723" target='_blank'>What's in a definition?: a simulation framework for modeling sepsis interventions using electronic health records</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Nataraj, Julie S. Ivy, J. Huddleston, R. Arnold, M. Capan
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-09</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>30</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In recent years, there has been a rise in Major Incidents with big impact on the citizens health and the society. Without the possibility of conducting live experiments when it comes to physical and/or toxic trauma, only an accurate in silico reconstruction allows us to identify organizational solutions with the best possible chance of success, in correlation with the limitations on available resources (e.g. medical team, first responders, treatments, transports, and hospitals availability) and with the variability of the characteristic of event (e.g. type of incident, severity of the event and type of lesions). Utilizing modelling and simulation techniques, a simplified mathematical model of physiological evolution for patients involved in physical and toxic trauma incident scenarios has been developed and implemented. The model formalizes the dynamics, operating standards and practices of medical response and the main emergency service in the chain of emergency management during a Major Incident.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/66a4fa968378d5641fc2a745ef9d2338d4f067ce" target='_blank'>Modelling and simulation for Major Incidents</a></td>
          <td>
            Eleonora Pacciani, A. Borri, P. Soave, D. Gui, S. Magalini, S. Panunzi, C. Gaz, P. Gaudio, A. Malizia, A. Gaetano
          </td>
          <td>2015-05-20</td>
          <td>2015 9th International Conference on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare (PervasiveHealth)</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>34</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 In silico trials applying a computational model (CM) of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) to virtual patients receiving alternative treatments provide an attractive option to complement randomised clinical trials (RCTs) by adding comparative effectiveness data and facilitating the demonstration of drug benefit. In silico modelling allows comparison between treatments with each virtual patient being his own control, and is not limited by the number of patients, comparative arms or trial duration.
 This study aims at building a knowledge-based mechanistic model of ASCVD. Once validated, the model will be used to run in silico clinical trials to compare the benefit of inclisiran, an siRNA targeting PCSK9 mRNA, vs other lipid-lowering therapies (LLT) on cardiovascular (CV) events in patients with ASCVD.
 An extensive literature review was performed to identify pathophysiological mechanisms involved in ASCVD and therapeutic mechanisms of action (MOAs). Every piece of knowledge extracted from the literature is awarded a strength of evidence grading to allow tracking of uncertainty in the model. A panel of multidisciplinary experts reviewed knowledge models and subsequent modelling hypotheses to validate their relevance. Knowledge was translated into mathematical equations. Each functional relationship between entities is represented by a biochemical/biophysical reaction with its reaction rate. A system of ordinary differential equations provides dynamics of modelled biological entities. A strategy of model calibration/validation was defined with the expert panel, by selecting relevant RCT and registry data, that the model should be able to reproduce. A virtual population was generated to account for inter-patient variability.
 A mechanistic CM of ASCVD (including 72 biological entities, 750 parameters) was built from knowledge, describing lipoproteins metabolism and cholesterol homeostasis, dynamics of atherosclerotic plaque growth with lipoproteins infiltration in the intima and evolution of lipidic, necrotic and fibrotic tissues as well as plaque rupture leading to myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, lower extremity arterial disease or CV death. It also includes the impact of several risk factors (age, sex medical history, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, systemic inflammation, chronic kidney disease) and available LLT (atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, ezetimibe, evolocumab and inclisiran). After calibration, the model and virtual population reproduce pharmacokinetics of LLT, lipoproteins decrease under combinations of LLT and associated reduction in clinical events.
 ASCVD is ideally suited for in silico modelling: extensive literature is available regarding the pathophysiology, therapeutic MOAs are known and easily integrated in the model, clinically relevant outcomes are adequate model outputs, RCT and registry data exist to calibrate/validate the model. The next step is validation of the model before using it to run in silico trials.Plaque growth and rupture modelMulti-scale in silico model">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6d1176f72c2e640ad429eed51d227bde6fb84b00" target='_blank'>Design of knowledge-based mechanistic model of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease for in silico trials</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Angoulvant, P. Amarenco, A. Bastien, E. Bechet, F. Boccara, J. Boissel, B. Cariou, E. Courcelles, S. Granjeon-Noriot, G. Mahé, E. Peyronnet, L. Portal, S. Porte, Y. Wang, P. Steg
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>European Heart Journal</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3a862a8283292aa825d69ea106a30985ce3c41f4" target='_blank'>Challenges and rewards on the road to translational systems biology in acute illness: four case reports from interdisciplinary teams.</a></td>
          <td>
            MD Gary An, PhD C. Anthony Hunt, MD Gilles Clermont, E. Neugebauer, PhD Yoram Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2007-06-01</td>
          <td>Journal of critical care</td>
          <td>44</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a15604067dad84e4b721216417a54a9e68d95e42" target='_blank'>A data-driven acute inflammation therapy</a></td>
          <td>
            Vladan Radosavljevic, Kosta Ristovski, Z. Obradovic
          </td>
          <td>2013-11-01</td>
          <td>BMC Medical Genomics</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>50</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a15604067dad84e4b721216417a54a9e68d95e42" target='_blank'>A data-driven acute inflammation therapy</a></td>
          <td>
            Vladan Radosavljevic, Kosta Ristovski, Z. Obradovic
          </td>
          <td>2013-11-01</td>
          <td>BMC Medical Genomics</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>50</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Introduction: Accounting for biological heterogeneity represents one of the greatest challenges in biomedical research. Dynamic computational and mathematical models can be used to enhance the study and understanding of biological systems, but traditional methods for calibration and validation commonly do not account for the heterogeneity of biological data, which may result in overfitting and brittleness of these models. Herein we propose a machine learning approach that utilizes genetic algorithms (GAs) to calibrate and refine an agent-based model (ABM) of acute systemic inflammation, with a focus on accounting for the heterogeneity seen in a clinical data set, thereby avoiding overfitting and increasing the robustness and potential generalizability of the underlying simulation model. Methods: Agent-based modeling is a frequently used modeling method for multi-scale mechanistic modeling. However, the same properties that make ABMs well suited to representing biological systems also present significant challenges with respect to their construction and calibration, particularly with respect to the selection of potential mechanistic rules and the large number of associated free parameters. We have proposed that machine learning approaches (such as GAs) can be used to more effectively and efficiently deal with rule selection and parameter space characterization; the current work applies GAs to the challenge of calibrating a complex ABM to a specific data set, while preserving biological heterogeneity reflected in the range and variance of the data. This project uses a GA to augment the rule-set for a previously validated ABM of acute systemic inflammation, the Innate Immune Response ABM (IIRABM) to clinical time series data of systemic cytokine levels from a population of burn patients. The genome for the GA is a vector generated from the IIRABM’s Model Rule Matrix (MRM), which is a matrix representation of not only the constants/parameters associated with the IIRABM’s cytokine interaction rules, but also the existence of rules themselves. Capturing heterogeneity is accomplished by a fitness function that incorporates the sample value range (“error bars”) of the clinical data. Results: The GA-enabled parameter space exploration resulted in a set of putative MRM rules and associated parameterizations which closely match the cytokine time course data used to design the fitness function. The number of non-zero elements in the MRM increases significantly as the model parameterizations evolve toward a fitness function minimum, transitioning from a sparse to a dense matrix. This results in a model structure that more closely resembles (at a superficial level) the structure of data generated by a standard differential gene expression experimental study. Conclusion: We present an HPC-enabled machine learning/evolutionary computing approach to calibrate a complex ABM to complex clinical data while preserving biological heterogeneity. The integration of machine learning, HPC, and multi-scale mechanistic modeling provides a pathway forward to more effectively representing the heterogeneity of clinical populations and their data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d812cbca9665c47152cf44918c0c78a250b3f048" target='_blank'>Utilizing the Heterogeneity of Clinical Data for Model Refinement and Rule Discovery Through the Application of Genetic Algorithms to Calibrate a High-Dimensional Agent-Based Model of Systemic Inflammation</a></td>
          <td>
            Chase Cockrell, G. An
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-19</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Physiology</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Estimating the impact of trauma treatment protocols is complicated by the high dimensional yet finite sample nature of trauma data collected from observational studies. Viscoelastic assays are highly predictive measures of hemostasis. However, the effectiveness of thromboelastography(TEG) based treatment protocols has not been statistically this http URL conduct robust and reliable estimation with sparse data, we built an estimation "machine" for estimating causal impacts of candidate variables using the collaborative targeted maximum loss-based estimation(CTMLE) framework.The computational efficiency is achieved by using the scalable version of CTMLE such that the covariates are pre-ordered by summary statistics of their importance before proceeding to the estimation this http URL extend the application of the estimator in practice, we used super learning in combination with CTMLE to flexibly choose the best convex combination of algorithms. By selecting the optimal covariates set in high dimension and reducing constraints in choosing pre-ordering algorithms, we are able to construct a robust and data-adaptive model to estimate the parameter of interest.Under this estimation framework, CTMLE outperformed the other doubly robust estimators(IPW,AIPW,stabilized IPW,TMLE) in the simulation study. CTMLE demonstrated very accurate estimation of the target parameter (ATE). Applying CTMLE on the real trauma data, the treatment protocol (using TEG values immediately after injury) showed significant improvement in trauma patient hemostasis status (control of bleeding), and a decrease in mortality rate at 6h compared to standard care.The estimation results did not show significant change in mortality rate at 24h after arrival.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/288e3e9e8c309e1239e4bf7f5ff232a20dcddbd6" target='_blank'>A Data-Adaptive Targeted Learning Approach of Evaluating Viscoelastic Assay Driven Trauma Treatment Protocols</a></td>
          <td>
            Linqing Wei, Lucy Z.Kornblith, A. Hubbard
          </td>
          <td>2019-09-27</td>
          <td>arXiv: Applications</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6d5e67ad5fac578946227dfc659d5a312e8d5117" target='_blank'>Inflammation and Disease: Modelling and Modulation of the Inflammatory Response to Alleviate Critical Illness.</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Day, Chase Cockrell, Rami A. Namas, R. Zamora, G. An, Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2018-08-23</td>
          <td>Current opinion in systems biology</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b094fe3e727c0283e0e48becd0931e6dabfc7d28" target='_blank'>Augmenting Surgery via Multi-scale Modeling and Translational Systems Biology in the Era of Precision Medicine: A Multidisciplinary Perspective</a></td>
          <td>
            G. Kassab, G. An, E. Sander, M. Miga, J. Guccione, Songbai Ji, Y. Vodovotz
          </td>
          <td>2016-03-25</td>
          <td>Annals of Biomedical Engineering</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>73</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c86daccd0eb693558d033dceb344b24f8869792f" target='_blank'>Computational analysis identifies putative prognostic biomarkers of pathological scarring in skin wounds</a></td>
          <td>
            Sridevi Nagaraja, Lin Chen, L. DiPietro, J. Reifman, A. Mitrophanov
          </td>
          <td>2018-02-20</td>
          <td>Journal of Translational Medicine</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>