---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-29 08:53:41 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>An updated estimation of the risk of transmission of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCov)</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8e25fe0e534e1899df991761f7e64272de2b868a" target='_blank'>Prediction of daily and cumulative cases for COVID-19 infection based on reproductive number (R0) in Karnataka: a data-driven analytics</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Suresh, S. Patil, Bharath Prasad, Cholanayakanahalli Thyagaraju, Srikantha Gowda, D. Hemadri, S. Chandrashekara
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-12</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a2e2d5979af2c4218013d0b9eda4743f114a8c89" target='_blank'>Numerical simulation of the novel coronavirus spreading</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Mędrek, Z. Pastuszak
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-15</td>
          <td>Expert Systems with Applications</td>
          <td>29</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Since the outbreak of coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19), the whole world has taken interest in the mechanisms of its spread and development. Mathematical models have been valuable instruments for the study of the spread and control of infectious diseases. For that purpose, we propose a two-way approach in modeling COVID-19 spread: a susceptible, exposed, infected, recovered, deceased (SEIRD) model based on differential equations and a long short-term memory (LSTM) deep learning model. The SEIRD model is a compartmental epidemiological model with included components: susceptible, exposed, infected, recovered, deceased. In the case of the SEIRD model, official statistical data available online for countries of Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg (Benelux) in the period of March 15 2020 to March 15 2021 were used. Based on them, we have calculated key parameters and forward them to the epidemiological model, which will predict the number of infected, deceased, and recovered people. Results show that the SEIRD model is able to accurately predict several peaks for all the three countries of interest, with very small root mean square error (RMSE), except for the mild cases (maximum RMSE was 240.79 ± 90.556), which can be explained by the fact that no official data were available for mild cases, but this number was derived from other statistics. On the other hand, LSTM represents a special kind of recurrent neural network structure that can comparatively learn long-term temporal dependencies. Results show that LSTM is capable of predicting several peaks based on the position of previous peaks with low values of RMSE. Higher values of RMSE are observed in the number of infected cases in Belgium (RMSE was 535.93) and Netherlands (RMSE was 434.28), and are expected because of thousands of people getting infected per day in those countries. In future studies, we will extend the models to include mobility information, variants of concern, as well as a medical intervention, etc. A prognostic model could help us predict epidemic peaks. In that way, we could react in a timely manner by introducing new or tightening existing measures before the health system is overloaded.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/68198fb32bf58ef39795472d57da7f55961d063b" target='_blank'>Epidemiological Predictive Modeling of COVID-19 Infection: Development, Testing, and Implementation on the Population of the Benelux Union</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Šušteršič, Andjela Blagojevic, D. Cvetković, A. Cvetkovic, I. Lorencin, Sandi Baressi Segota, D. Milovanović, D. Baskić, Z. Car, N. Filipovic
          </td>
          <td>2021-10-28</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Public Health</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Initially found at Hubei, Wuhan and identified as a novel virus of coronavirus family by WHO, COVID-19 has spread worldwide with an exponentially speed, causing millions of death and public fear. Currently, COVID19 has brought a secondary wave within U.S., India, Brazil and other parts of the world. However, its transmission, incubation, and recovery processes are still unclear from the medical, mathematical and pharmaceutical aspects. Classical Suspect-Infection-Recovery model has limitations to describe the dynamic behavior of COVID-19. Hence, it becomes necessary to introduce a recursive, latent model to predict the number of future COVID-19 infected cases in U.S. In this article, a dynamic model called RLIM based on classical SEIR model is proposed to predict the number of COVID-19 infections with a dynamic secondary infection rate ω in assumption. An intermediate state called SI is introduced between recovery and infection statues to record the number of secondary infected cases from a latent period of recovery. Compared with other models, RLIM fits historical recovery cases and utilizes them to predict future infections. Because RLIM utilizes multiple information sources, and provides error back propagation schematics, it is reasonable to assert that its predictions are more accurate and persuasive. Projections of four U.S. COVID19 states show that with the secondary infectious rate ω varies from 0.01 to 0.3 within a latent period of 14 days chosen, RLIM can predict the newly infected number from January 15 to February 15, 2021 with AFER lower to 14%. It also successfully estimates the turning point of New Yorks infections in January 2021, based on current data records.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4e777f630af25cd470d4957a644d0d754441d701" target='_blank'>RLIM: A Recursive and Latent Infection Model for COVID-19 Prediction and Turning Point in United States</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiang Yu, Lihua Lu, Jianyi Shen, Jiandun Li, Wei Xiao, Yangquan Chen
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-10</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Since its appearance in 2019, the COVID-19 virus deluged the world with unprecedented data in short time. Despite the countless worldwide pertinent studies and advanced technologies, the spread has been neither contained nor defeated. In fact, there is a recent record surge in the number of confirmed new cases. The rational question is thus: why has it taken so long to date to forecast the trajectory of the spread? To this end, this chapter presents a new predictive Knowledge-based (KB) toolkit named CORVITT (Corona Virus Tracking Toolkit) and a modified linear regression model. This logical step assists the officials, organizations, and users to forecast the spread trajectory and accordingly make proactive rather than retroactive intervention decisions. This hybrid approach uses the confirmed new cases and demographic data, implemented. CORVITT is not an epidemiological model, in the sense that it does not model disease transmission, nor does it use underlying epidemiological parameters or data including the reproductive rate, disease methods, real time polymerase chain reaction cycle threshold, the virus structure and pathogenesis, etc. The chapter is a seed in an in-progress study that will broaden its scope by including additional parameters.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1da9dd9e95cd5eb885e4ebd5ef767e80d6c7afc1" target='_blank'>How Can We Be Ahead of COVID-19 Curve? A Hybrid Knowledge-Based and Modified Regression Analysis Approach for COVID-19 Tracking in USA</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Hussein
          </td>
          <td>2020-09-22</td>
          <td>Some RNA Viruses</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present a general approach to define reproduction ratios or numbers to monitor the outbreak of epidemics that are modeled by mathematical evolution equations. This provides a solution to an important topic that has not been completely settled in the literature, especially in the case of complex epidemiological models. We illustrate our procedure with a full implementation of a standard deterministic SEIR model that is applied to examine the Covid-19 outbreaks and the effects of intervention measures in several countries in America (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, USA) and Europe (France, Italy, Spain and UK) in 2020. Our code is also used to investigate herd immunity levels for Covid-19, indicating values between 85% and 90%.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c64e06103864bce295593e2a6036d32fb5a31472" target='_blank'>Defining and Computing Reproduction Numbers to Monitor the Outbreak of Covid-19 or Other Epidemics</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Zingano, J. Zingano, A. Silva, C. Zingano
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-30</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is an emergent disease that initially had no historical data to guide scientists on predicting/ forecasting its global or national impact over time. The ability to predict the progress of this pandemic has been crucial for decision making aimed at fighting this pandemic and controlling its spread. In this work we considered four different statistical/time series models that are readily available from the ‘forecast’ package in R. We performed novel applications with these models, forecasting the number of infected cases (confirmed cases and similarly the number of deaths and recovery) along with the corresponding 90% prediction interval to estimate uncertainty around pointwise forecasts. Since the future may not repeat the past for this pandemic, no prediction model is certain. However, any prediction tool with acceptable prediction performance (or prediction error) could still be very useful for public-health planning to handle spread of the pandemic, and could policy decision-making and facilitate transition to normality. These four models were applied to publicly available data of the COVID-19 pandemic for both the USA and Italy. We observed that all models reasonably predicted the future numbers of confirmed cases, deaths, and recoveries of COVID-19. However, for the majority of the analyses, the time series model with autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) and cubic smoothing spline models both had smaller prediction errors and narrower prediction intervals, compared to the Holt and Trigonometric Exponential smoothing state space model with Box-Cox transformation (TBATS) models. Therefore, the former two models were preferable to the latter models. Given similarities in performance of the models in the USA and Italy, the corresponding prediction tools can be applied to other countries grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, and to any pandemics that can occur in future.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5b7a17c19db99bae3429508c619e251e8cf63598" target='_blank'>Forecasting COVID-19 confirmed cases, deaths and recoveries: Revisiting established time series modeling through novel applications for the USA and Italy</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Gecili, A. Ziady, R. Szczesniak
          </td>
          <td>2021-01-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>52</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Analysing the spread of COVID-19 epidemics in a timely manner is essential for public health authorities. However, raw numbers may be misleading because of spatial and temporal variations. We introduce Rt2, an R-program with a shiny interface, which uses incidence data, i.e. number of new cases per day, to compute variations in the temporal reproduction number (Rt), which corresponds to the average number of secondary infections caused by an infected person. This number is computed with the R0 package, which better captures past variations, and the EpiEstim package, which provides a more accurate estimate of current values. Rt can be computed in different countries using either the daily number of new cases or of deaths. For France, these numbers can also be computed at the regional and departmental level using also daily numbers of hospital and ICU admissions. Finally, in addition to Rt, we represent the incidence using a one-week sliding window to buffer daily variations. Overall, Rt2 provides an accurate and timely overview of the state and speed of spread of COVID-19 epidemics at different scales, using different metrics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/43c98ebd6e1344d667c6046c5adfcbeaded60ae0" target='_blank'>Rt2: computing and visualising COVID-19 epidemics temporal reproduction number</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Reyné, G. Danesh, S. Alizon, M. Sofonea
          </td>
          <td>2020-12-07</td>
          <td>medRxiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Since the emergence of the novel 2019 coronavirus pandemic in December 2019 (COVID-19), numerous modellers have used diverse techniques to assess the dynamics of transmission of the disease, predict its future course and determine the impact of different control measures. In this study, we conducted a global systematic literature review to summarize trends in the modelling techniques used for Covid-19 from January 1st, 2020 to October 30th, 2020. We further examined the reliability and correctness of predictions by comparing predicted and observed values for cumulative cases and deaths. From an initial 4311 peer-reviewed articles and preprints found with our defined keywords, 242 were fully analysed. Most studies were done on Asian (46.52%) and European (27.39%) countries. Most of them used compartmental models (namely SIR and SEIR) (46.1%) and statistical models (growth models and time series) (31.8%) while few used artificial intelligence (6.7%), Bayesian approach (4.7%), Network models (2.3%) and Agent-based models (1.3%). For the number of cumulative cases, the ratio of the predicted over the observed values and the ratio of the amplitude of confidence interval (CI) or credibility interval (CrI) of predictions and the central value were on average larger than 1 indicating cases of inaccurate and imprecise predictions, and large variation across predictions. There was no clear difference among models used for these two ratios. In 75% of predictions that provided CI or CrI, observed values fall within the 95% CI or CrI of the cumulative cases predicted. Only 3.7% of the studies predicted the cumulative number of deaths. For 70% of the predictions, the ratio of predicted over observed cumulative deaths was less or close to 1. Also, the Bayesian model made predictions closer to reality than classical statistical models, although these differences are only suggestive due to the small number of predictions within our dataset (9 in total). In addition, we found a significant negative correlation (rho = - 0.56, p = 0.021) between this ratio and the length (in days) of the period covered by the modelling, suggesting that the longer the period covered by the model the likely more accurate the estimates tend to be. Our findings suggest that while predictions made by the different models are useful to understand the pandemic course and guide policy-making, some were relatively accurate and precise while other not.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f34172568e2851549871d3a8659a5c1f3f463b10" target='_blank'>On the reliability of predictions on Covid-19 dynamics: A systematic and critical review of modelling techniques</a></td>
          <td>
            Janyce Eunice Gnanvi, K. V. Salako, Gaëtan Brezesky Kotanmi, R. G. Glèlè Kakaï
          </td>
          <td>2020-09-11</td>
          <td>Infectious Disease Modelling</td>
          <td>93</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We developed a computational tool to assess the risk of novel coronavirus outbreaks outside China. We estimate the dependence of the risk of a major outbreak in a country from imported cases on key parameters such as: (i) the evolution of the cumulative number of cases in mainland China outside the closed areas; (ii) the connectivity of the destination country with China, including baseline travel frequencies, the effect of travel restrictions, and the efficacy of entry screening at destination; (iii) the efficacy of control measures in the destination country (expressed by the local reproduction number Rloc). We found that in countries with low connectivity to China but with relatively high Rloc, the most beneficial control measure to reduce the risk of outbreaks is a further reduction in their importation number either by entry screening or travel restrictions. Countries with high connectivity but low Rloc benefit the most from policies that further reduce Rloc. Countries in the middle should consider a combination of such policies. Risk assessments were illustrated for selected groups of countries from America, Asia and Europe, and we investigated how their risks depend on those parameters, and how the risk is increasing in time as the number of cases in China is growing.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/73a6fd9e9294f6fab12c377878eae343469d8a4c" target='_blank'>Risk Assessment of Novel Coronavirus COVID-19 Outbreaks Outside China</a></td>
          <td>
            Péter Boldog, T. Tekeli, Z. Vizi, A. Dénes, F. Bartha, G. Röst
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Clinical Medicine</td>
          <td>283</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a7a3b24d60304fae1acaaba08cc76944b06a6c9f" target='_blank'>Toolbox to simulate and mitigate COVID-19 propagation</a></td>
          <td>
            Zahrate El Oula Frihi, J. Barreiro‐Gomez, S. E. Choutri, H. Tembine
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-18</td>
          <td>Softwarex</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>36</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a global health care problem that international efforts have been suggested and discussed to control this disease. Although, there are many researches have been conducted on the basis of the clinical data and recorded infected cases, there is still scope for further research due to the fact that a number of complicated parameters are involved for future prediction. Thus, mathematical modeling with computational simulations is an important tool that estimates key transmission parameters and predicts model dynamics of the disease. In this paper, we review and introduce some models for the COVID-19 that can address important questions about the global health care and suggest important notes. We suggest three well known numerical techniques for solving such equations, they are Euler’s method, Runge–Kutta method of order two (RK2) and of order four (RK4). Results based on the suggested numerical techniques and providing approximate solutions give important key answers to this global issue. Numerical results may use to estimate the number susceptible, infected, recovered and quarantined individuals in the future. The results here may also help international efforts for more preventions and improvement their intervention programs. More interestedly, for both countries, Turkey and Iraq, the basic reproduction numbers R0 have been reported recently by several groups, a research estimation by 9 April 2020 revealed that R0 for Turkey is 7.4 and for Iraq is 3.4, which are noticeably increased from the beginning of the pandemic. In addition, on the basis of WHO situation reports, the new confirmed cases in Turkey on 11 April are 5138, and in Iraq on 29 May are 416, which can be counted as the peak value from the beginning of the disease. Thus, we investigate the forecasting epidemic size for Turkey and Iraq using the logistic model. It can be concluded that the suggested model is a reasonable description of this epidemic disease.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/22c49382497c2bb603183846d2d42e2d61c94468" target='_blank'>Analysis coronavirus disease (COVID-19) model using numerical approaches and logistic model</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Ahmed, Bashdar A. Salam, Mahmud Mohammad, Ali Akgül, Sarbaz H. A. Khoshnaw
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-05</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>62</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In order to effectively manage infectious diseases, it is crucial to understand the interplay between disease dynamics and human conduct. Various factors can impact the control of an epidemic, including social interventions, adherence to health protocols, mask-wearing, and vaccination. This article presents the development of an innovative hybrid model, known as the Combined Dynamic-Learning Model, that integrates classical recurrent dynamic models with four different learning methods. The model is composed of two approaches: The first approach introduces a traditional dynamic model that focuses on analyzing the impact of vaccination on the occurrence of an epidemic, and the second approach employs various learning methods to forecast the potential outcomes of an epidemic. Furthermore, our numerical results offer an interesting comparison between the traditional approach and modern learning techniques. Our classic dynamic model is a compartmental model that aims to analyze and forecast the diffusion of epidemics. The model we propose has a recurrent structure with piecewise constant parameters and includes compartments for susceptible, exposed, vaccinated, infected, and recovered individuals. This model can accurately mirror the dynamics of infectious diseases, which enables us to evaluate the impact of restrictive measures on the spread of diseases. We conduct a comprehensive dynamic analysis of our model. Additionally, we suggest an optimal numerical design to determine the parameters of the system. Also, we use regression tree learning, bidirectional long short-term memory, gated recurrent unit, and a combined deep learning method for training and evaluation of an epidemic. In the final section of our paper, we apply these methods to recently published data on COVID-19 in Austria, Brazil, and China from 26 February 2021 to 4 August 2021, which is when vaccination efforts began. To evaluate the numerical results, we utilized various metrics such as RMSE and R-squared. Our findings suggest that the dynamic model is ideal for long-term analysis, data fitting, and identifying parameters that impact epidemics. However, it is not as effective as the supervised learning method for making long-term forecasts. On the other hand, supervised learning techniques, compared to dynamic models, are more effective for predicting the spread of diseases, but not for analyzing the behavior of epidemics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/12064cb2dd91127bb6911907148e3aa966097c22" target='_blank'>Exploring the potential of learning methods and recurrent dynamic model with vaccination: A comparative case study of COVID-19 in Austria, Brazil, and China.</a></td>
          <td>
            Seyed Ali Rakhshan, M. Zaj, F. Ghane, Mahdi Soltani Nejad
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Physical review. E</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Recent months have demonstrated that emerging variants may set back the global COVID-19 response. The ability to rapidly assess the threat of new variants in real-time is critical for timely optimisation of control strategies. We extend the EpiEstim R package, designed to estimate the time-varying reproduction number (Rt), to estimate in real-time the effective transmission advantage of a new variant compared to a reference variant. Our method can combine information across multiple locations and over time and was validated using an extensive simulation study, designed to mimic a variety of real-time epidemic contexts. We estimate that the SARS-CoV-2 Alpha variant is 1.46 (95% Credible Interval 1.44-1.47) and 1.29, (95% CrI 1.29-1.30) times more transmissible than the wild type, using data from England and France respectively. We further estimate that Beta and Gamma combined are 1.25 (95% CrI 1.24-1.27) times more transmissible than the wildtype (France data). All results are in line with previous estimates from literature, but could have been obtained earlier and more easily with our off-the-shelf open-source tool. Our tool can be used as an important first step towards quantifying the threat of new variants in real-time. Given the popularity of EpiEstim, this extension will likely be used widely to monitor the co-circulation and/or emergence of multiple variants of infectious pathogens.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a8fd40c4930fe8c4b8698b83d0b6ca293cf3f7ad" target='_blank'>A generic method and software to estimate the transmission advantage of pathogen variants in real-time : SARS-CoV-2 as a case-study</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Bhatia, J. Wardle, R. K. Nash, P. Nouvellet, A. Cori
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-28</td>
          <td>None</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 BACKGROUND
 When a new disease starts to spread, one of the commonly asked questions is (1) how deadly it is. World Health Organization (WHO) announced in a press conference on January 29th, 2020 and reported the death rate of COVID-19 was 2% on the case fatality rate(CFR). Whether the claim was underestimated is worthy of clarifications when considering the lag days from symptom onset to death.
 
 
 OBJECTIVE
 We developed an app for online displaying three types of computations of CFR and verifying the death rate of 2% substantially underestimated.
 
 
 METHODS
 We downloaded COVID-19 outbreak numbers from January 21 to February 25, 2020, in countries/regions on a daily basis from Github that contains daily information on confirmed cases, deaths, and the recovered in more than 30 Chinese locations and other worldwide countries/regions. Three CFRs on COVID-19 were compared, including (A) deaths/confirmed;(B) deaths/(deaths+recovered); and (C) deaths/(cases x days ago). The coefficients of variance (CV=the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean) were applied to measure the relative variability for each CFR. A dashboard was developed for daily display of the CFR on COVID-19 for each region.
 
 
 RESULTS
 We observed that the CVs were 0.07, 9.23, and 5.08 and the CFRs were 3.37%, 8.85%, and 3.58% for these three CFR computations, respectively, on Feb. 25, 2020. The death rate of COVID-19(=2%) announced by WHO using the formula of deaths/confirmed was substantially underestimated. A dashboard was created to present the provisional CFRs of COVID-19 on a daily basis.
 
 
 CONCLUSIONS
 We suggest examining these three CFRs as a reference to the final CFR. An app developed for displaying the provisional CFR with these three CFRs can modify the underestimated CFR reported by WHO and media.
 
 
 CLINICALTRIAL
 Not available
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/23936750f2a081ba9e2bdbbcf034c45b55d379fc" target='_blank'>An App for Understanding the Case Fatality Rate of Novel Coronavirus (COVID -19): Observation Study (Preprint)</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Chien, W. Kan, Yu-Tsen Yeh, S. Kuo
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-26</td>
          <td>None</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>25</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/48ad6b5c6f5e3a29d7d59191079ea0686bf6d9d9" target='_blank'>Real-time forecasts and risk assessment of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) cases: A data-driven analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Tanujit Chakraborty, I. Ghosh
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-09</td>
          <td>Chaos, Solitons, and Fractals</td>
          <td>351</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ee90f05aa5a937db108c1c8f8e033e67ed2b4ef9" target='_blank'>What are the underlying transmission patterns of COVID-19 outbreak? An age-specific social contact characterization</a></td>
          <td>
            Y. Liu, Z. Gu, S. Xia, B. Shi, X. Zhou, Y. Shi, J. Liu
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-18</td>
          <td>EClinicalMedicine</td>
          <td>137</td>
          <td>50</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this work, the modified SEIR model was proposed to account separately for the tested and isolated cases, with severe and critical symptoms, from those not tested, with mild and moderate symptoms. Two parameters were estimated and evaluated for the cases registered in Rondenia-Brazil, between March 20 and April 22. The basic reproduction rate did not remain constant during the period, showing variations eventually due to social behavior. The results show that the increase in the proportion of testing to about 56% provided a significant decrease in the confirmed cases since the expansion of the tested cases beyond the current testing criterion (20%) would help to identify and isolate also mild and moderate cases, generally referred to as asymptomatic.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/84cf2c8e235df069e9dadbc1bf231b6a3cbfe887" target='_blank'>A Computational Model for Estimating the Evolution of COVID-19 in Rondenia-Brazil</a></td>
          <td>
            Tito Dias Junior, Camila Bueno Machado
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-09</td>
          <td>Archives of Clinical and Biomedical Research</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Analysing and understanding the transmission and evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic is mandatory to be able to design the best social and medical policies, foresee their outcomes and deal with all the subsequent socio-economic effects. We address this important problem from a computational and machine learning perspective. More specifically, we want to statistically estimate all the relevant parameters for the new coronavirus COVID-19, such as the reproduction number, fatality rate or length of infectiousness period, based on Romanian patients, as well as be able to predict future outcomes. This endeavor is important, since it is well known that these factors vary across the globe, and might be dependent on many causes, including social, medical, age and genetic factors. We use a recently published improved version of SEIR, which is the classic, established model for infectious diseases. We want to infer all the parameters of the model, which govern the evolution of the pandemic in Romania, based on the only reliable, true measurement, which is the number of deaths. Once the model parameters are estimated, we are able to predict all the other relevant measures, such as the number of exposed and infectious people. To this end, we propose a self-supervised approach to train a deep convolutional network to guess the correct set of Modified-SEIR model parameters, given the observed number of daily fatalities. Then, we refine the solution with a stochastic coordinate descent approach. We compare our deep learning optimization scheme with the classic grid search approach and show great improvement in both computational time and prediction accuracy. We find an optimistic result in the case fatality rate for Romania which may be around 0.3% and we also demonstrate that our model is able to correctly predict the number of daily fatalities for up to three weeks in the future.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a8f5ee5b8cf4decbea9b79b2ebab7111fe7feea8" target='_blank'>A self-supervised neural-analytic method to predict the evolution of COVID-19 in Romania</a></td>
          <td>
            Radu D. Stochitoiu, Traian Rebedea, Ionel Popescu, Marius Leordeanu
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-23</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We propose a new epidemic model (SuEIR) for forecasting the spread of COVID-19, including numbers of confirmed and fatality cases at national and state levels in the United States. Specifically, the SuEIR model is a variant of the SEIR model by taking into account the untested/unreported cases of COVID-19, and trained by machine learning algorithms based on the reported historical data. Besides providing basic projections for confirmed and fatality cases, the proposed SuEIR model is also able to predict the peak date of active cases, and estimate the basic reproduction number (R0). In particular, the forecasts based on our model suggest that the peak date of the US, New York state, and California state are 06/01/2020, 05/10/2020, and 07/01/2020 respectively. In addition, the estimated R0 of the US, New York state, and California state are 2.5, 3.6 and 2.2 respectively. The prediction results for all states in the US can be found on our project website: https://covid19.uclaml.org, which are updated on a weekly basis, and have been adopted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for COVID-19 death forecasts (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/covid-data/forecasting-us.html).">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/edad5000d163585994ed119a3c981d2cde3591d6" target='_blank'>Epidemic Model Guided Machine Learning for COVID-19 Forecasts in the United States</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Zou, L. Wang, Pan Xu, J. Chen, W. Zhang, Q. Gu
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-25</td>
          <td>medRxiv</td>
          <td>97</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/683941bba37738419e1c2f2c80c218f3557018a8" target='_blank'>Classification of community-acquired outbreaks for the global transmission of COVID-19: Machine learning and statistical model analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Wei-chun Wang, Ting-Yu Lin, S. Chiu, Chiung-Nien Chen, Pongdech Sarakarn, M. Ibrahim, S. Chen, Hsiu-Hsi Chen, Y. Yeh
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-16</td>
          <td>Journal of the Formosan Medical Association</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>30</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="To effectively counter the COVID-19 spread, using scientifically based decision-making methods in this area is required. The disease characteristics and the methods applied to stem it are constantly changing, so it is necessary to update existing methods for predicting the COVID-19 spread in light of new trends. The present paper deals with developing a new SVEIRS model from the SEIR class, taking into account the vaccination campaign and the possibility of recurrent morbidity cases. These improvements make it possible to increase the accuracy of the disease spread prediction due to a more direct correspondence to reality. The developed SVEIRS model was verified when predicting the COVID-19 spread in Moscow in July-September of 2022 and showed higher prediction accuracy compared to the SEVIS reference model. Based on the developed model, it is possible to predict the COVID-19 spread in various regions to form an optimal vaccination campaign strategy.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a7d23e71fceff04aa47e5f11beab7f50a2b80964" target='_blank'>COVID-19 Spread Modeling Considering Vaccination and Re-Morbidity</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Borovkov, M. Bolsunovskaya, A. Gintciak, Valeriya V. Rakova, Marina O. Efremova, Ruslan B. Akbarov
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-27</td>
          <td>International Journal of Technology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Significance Based on a signal-processing approach, we propose a method to compute the reproduction number Rt, the transmission potential of an epidemic over time. Rt is estimated by minimizing a functional that enforces: 1) the ability to produce an incidence curve it corrected of the weekly periodic bias produced by the “weekend effect,” obtained from Rt through a renewal equation; and 2) the regularity of Rt. A good agreement is found between our Rt estimate and the one provided by the currently accepted method, EpiEstim, except that our method predicts Rt several days closer to present. We provide the mathematical arguments for this shift. The COVID-19 pandemic has undergone frequent and rapid changes in its local and global infection rates, driven by governmental measures or the emergence of new viral variants. The reproduction number Rt indicates the average number of cases generated by an infected person at time t and is a key indicator of the spread of an epidemic. A timely estimation of Rt is a crucial tool to enable governmental organizations to adapt quickly to these changes and assess the consequences of their policies. The EpiEstim method is the most widely accepted method for estimating Rt. But it estimates Rt with a significant temporal delay. Here, we propose a method, EpiInvert, that shows good agreement with EpiEstim, but that provides estimates of Rt several days in advance. We show that Rt can be estimated by inverting the renewal equation linking Rt with the observed incidence curve of new cases, it. Our signal-processing approach to this problem yields both Rt and a restored it corrected for the “weekend effect” by applying a deconvolution and denoising procedure. The implementations of the EpiInvert and EpiEstim methods are fully open source and can be run in real time on every country in the world and every US state.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/181f42e689c47ea98ed1ecf7e685f2bd36c6fc47" target='_blank'>Computing the daily reproduction number of COVID-19 by inverting the renewal equation using a variational technique</a></td>
          <td>
            L. Álvarez, M. Colom, Jean-David Morel, J. Morel
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-07</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/38cd78613f2891111d157871d4b14b6cff173a22" target='_blank'>Modeling Global COVID-19 Dissemination Data After the Emergence of Omicron Variant Using Multipronged Approaches</a></td>
          <td>
            S. K. Yadav, Vinit Kumar, Y. Akhter
          </td>
          <td>2022-08-10</td>
          <td>Current Microbiology</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/38cd78613f2891111d157871d4b14b6cff173a22" target='_blank'>Modeling Global COVID-19 Dissemination Data After the Emergence of Omicron Variant Using Multipronged Approaches</a></td>
          <td>
            S. K. Yadav, Vinit Kumar, Y. Akhter
          </td>
          <td>2022-08-10</td>
          <td>Current Microbiology</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/683941bba37738419e1c2f2c80c218f3557018a8" target='_blank'>Classification of community-acquired outbreaks for the global transmission of COVID-19: Machine learning and statistical model analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Wei-chun Wang, Ting-Yu Lin, S. Chiu, Chiung-Nien Chen, Pongdech Sarakarn, M. Ibrahim, S. Chen, Hsiu-Hsi Chen, Y. Yeh
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-16</td>
          <td>Journal of the Formosan Medical Association</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>30</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 The world has been struck due to the dangerous human threat called Corona Virus Disease 2019. This research work proposes a methodology to encounter the future infection rate, curing rate, and decease rate. This uses the artificial intelligence algorithm to design and develop the proposed confirmed, cured, deceased (COCUDE) model. A machine learning model has been developed with several iterations to design the proposed COCUDE model. The Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC), and Correlated Akaike Information criterion (AICc) metrics are analyzed to check the stationary and quality for the proposed COCUDE model. The prediction results are evaluated by the performance error metrics such as mean square error (MSE) and root mean square error (RMSE), in which the errors are lower for the proposed model. Thus, the prediction results indicate the proposed COCUDE model might accurately predict future COVID-19 infection rates. It might support the corresponding authorities to take the precautious action on the required necessities for the medical and clinical infrastructures and equipment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6502d10d4102b04224bcb8c6183396361861df28" target='_blank'>Probable Forecasting of Epidemic COVID-19 in Using COCUDE Model</a></td>
          <td>
            Prasannavenkatesan Theerthagiri
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-16</td>
          <td>EAI Endorsed Trans. Pervasive Health Technol.</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Since December 2019, COVID-19 has raged in Wuhan and subsequently all over China and the world. We propose a Cybernetics-based Dynamic Infection Model (CDIM) to the dynamic infection process with a probability distributed incubation delay and feedback principle. Reproductive trends and the stability of the SARS-COV-2 infection in a city can then be analyzed, and the uncontrollable risks can be forecasted before they really happen. The infection mechanism of a city is depicted using the philosophy of cybernetics and approaches of the control engineering. Distinguished with other epidemiological models, such as SIR, SEIR, etc., that compute the theoretical number of infected people in a closed population, CDIM considers the immigration and emigration population as system inputs, and administrative and medical resources as dynamic control variables. The epidemic regulation can be simulated in the model to support the decision-making for containing the outbreak. City case studies are demonstrated for verification and validation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/aaa9af2ed24330cb7e8abf090494760db83b5561" target='_blank'>A Cybernetics-based Dynamic Infection Model for Analyzing SARS-COV-2 Infection Stability and Predicting Uncontrollable Risks</a></td>
          <td>
            W. Xiao, Qiang Liu, J. Huan, Pengpeng Sun, Liuquan Wang, Chenxin Zang, Sanying Zhu, Liansheng Gao
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-17</td>
          <td>medRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In our paper we explore the use of the ARIMA model for forecasting time series for the analysis of open data on the spread of the coronavirus infection in a number of the Russian Federation regions. The possibility of using the existing methods and algorithms of R programming language is considered, algorithms for selecting the parameters of the ARIMA model are presented. We have developed and uploaded the script in R programming language, which allows using the standard library auto.arima to predict the total cases of infection and deaths for a selected period. The paper shows that the parameters of the model are different for time series of different lengths, for different regions; in addition, the parameters of the model change over time. The available toolkit of the R language is investigated and it is shown that there are data sets for which it does not allow obtaining the parameters of the model that gives the smallest error. The frequency of model retraining is investigated, data on changes in the model parameters for time series of different lengths are presented. Investigation of cases of errors in automatic selection of model parameters is a topic for further research. We have presented a meaningful interpretation of the data obtained. A comparison of the forecasts obtained at the end of October, 2020 and actual data for the middle of November, 2020 is carried out. We have shown that the obtained forecast made it possible to accurately predict the total number of infections and deaths for 7–10 days for any further period.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c25ac659c9275deec55391bca843abd9ea567446" target='_blank'>АВТОМАТИЧЕСКИЙ ПОДБОР ПАРАМЕТРОВ МОДЕЛИ ARIMA ДЛЯ ПРОГНОЗА КОЛИЧЕСТВА СЛУЧАЕВ ЗАРАЖЕНИЯ И СМЕРТИ ОТ COVID-19</a></td>
          <td>
            Макаровских Татьяна Анатольевна, Аботалеб Мостафа Салахелдин Абделсалам
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-03</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e3106349e563ac3f7380643bb88e27a1871bd24a" target='_blank'>Analysis and prediction of worldwide novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infections, using neural network-based techniques</a></td>
          <td>
            Sachin Kamley, R. S. Thakur
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-16</td>
          <td>Iran Journal of Computer Science</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="An essential indicator of COVID-19 transmission is the effective reproduction number (Rt), the number of cases which an infected individual is expected to infect at a particular moment of time; curves of the evolution of Rt over time (transmission curves) reflect the impact of preventive measures and whether an epidemic is controlled. We have created a Shiny/R web application with user-selectable features: open data sources with daily COVID-19 incidences from all countries and many regions, customizable preprocessing options (smoothing, proportional increment, backwards distribution of negative corrections, etc), different MonteCarlo-Markov-Chain estimates of the generation time or serial interval distributions and state-of-the-art Rt estimation frameworks (EpiEstim, R0). We have analyzed the impact of these factors in the obtained transmission curves. We also have obtained curves at the national and sub-national level and analyzed the impact of epidemic control strategies, superspreading events, socioeconomic factors and outbreaks. We conclude that country wealth and, to a lesser extent, mitigation strategies, were associated with poorer epidemic control. Dataset quality was an important factor, and sometimes dictated the necessity of time series smoothing. We couldn't find conclusive evidence regarding the impact of alleged superspreading events. In the reopening phase, outbreaks had an impact on transmission curves. This application could be used interactively as a tool both to obtain transmission estimates and to perform interactive sensitivity analysis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b0c6b98d2faba8b9248731adfbfc0b342d175141" target='_blank'>COVID-19 effective reproductive ratio determination: An application, and analysis of issues and influential factors</a></td>
          <td>
            Luis Alfredo Bautista Baibás, Mario Gil Conesa, G. R. Caravaca, Blanca Bautista Baibás
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-16</td>
          <td>medRxiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e71d35811cde07c017a333af4d44c46fd7a1bf7f" target='_blank'>Global analysis and prediction scenario of infectious outbreaks by recurrent dynamic model and machine learning models: A case study on COVID-19</a></td>
          <td>
            Seyed Ali Rakhshan, Mahdi Soltani Nejad, M. Zaj, F. Ghane
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-01</td>
          <td>Computers in Biology and Medicine</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Since COVID-19 was first identified in December 2019, various public health interventions have been implemented across the world. As different measures are implemented at different countries at different times, we conduct an assessment of the relative effectiveness of the measures implemented in 18 countries and regions using data from 22/01/2020 to 02/04/2020. We compute the top one and two measures that are most effective for the countries and regions studied during the period. Two Explainable AI techniques, SHAP and ECPI, are used in our study; such that we construct (machine learning) models for predicting the instantaneous reproduction number ($R_t$) and use the models as surrogates to the real world and inputs that the greatest influence to our models are seen as measures that are most effective. Across-the-board, city lockdown and contact tracing are the two most effective measures. For ensuring $R_t<1$, public wearing face masks is also important. Mass testing alone is not the most effective measure although when paired with other measures, it can be effective. Warm temperature helps for reducing the transmission.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e1060735f3b98f654b029a778cd75c1c83ee118d" target='_blank'>An Investigation of COVID-19 Spreading Factors with Explainable AI Techniques</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiuyi Fan, Siyuan Liu, Jiarong Chen, T. Henderson
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-05</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="As it is reported, the detailed COVID-19 cases have exceeded 400 million worldwide. And there is another outbreak of the COVID-19 infection in England due to the emergence of a new variant: Omicron. Through implementing distinctive control measures, most vaccination has been accomplished to an expansive levels in this country and is as of now in advance. Due to the popularity of vaccines and the success of anti-epidemic measures, the English government decide to announce the last legal restrictions being lifted by February 24, which means that English will be the first country to declare victory over COVID-19. To judge whether the decision is correct or not, we estimate confirmed cases, death, daily new confirmed cases and trend through modeling and simulating method. Considering the effectiveness of vaccines, we raise a new epidemic model named SEIR-V. Our results appear that if transmission rate increases by 15% compared to the current rate due to unwinding of social distancing conditions, the daily new cases can crest to 200k per day around April 1, 2022. The combination of vaccination and controlled legal restrictions is the key to tackling the emergency of the new variant Omicron epidemic. Considering that the new variant strains increase transmissibility and have high resistance to vaccines, the English government should continue the current epidemic prevention measures to avoid the emergence of a second wave of the epidemic.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bd06c568b1ec0ccb08b56a58a84f9418f0daeeb8" target='_blank'>Research on improved SEIR model predicting UK Coronavirus variant Omicron outbreak</a></td>
          <td>
            Zihan Ma
          </td>
          <td>2022-05-17</td>
          <td>None</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The outbreak and spread of COVID-19 poses a tremendous threat to the health of people all over the world. We collected the new imported COVID-19 cases daily in Shanghai, China from September 1, 2021 to January 17, 2022 from the National Commission on Health of the People's Republic of China website. The SVR and ARIMA models were constructed and compared. On this base, it is provided for the early warning of the outbreak of COVID-19 and the targeted preventive measures proposed for this infectious disease.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2cfcc1e498c4f2d67b0d45cef3a4f2314444b177" target='_blank'>Comparison of the SVR and ARIMA models for Prediction of daily imported new cases of COVID-19 in Shanghai, China</a></td>
          <td>
            Daren Zhao, Huiwu Zhang
          </td>
          <td>2022-03-01</td>
          <td>2022 Asia Conference on Algorithms, Computing and Machine Learning (CACML)</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), due to its extremely high infectivity, has been spreading rapidly around the world and bringing huge influence to socioeconomic development and people’s daily life. Taking for example the virus transmission that may occur after college students return to school, we analyze the quantitative influence of the key factors on the virus spread, including crowd density and self-protection. One Campus Virus Infection and Control Simulation (CVICS) model of the novel coronavirus is proposed in this article, fully considering the characteristics of repeated contact and strong mobility of crowd in the closed environment. Specifically, we build an agent-based infection model, introduce the mean field theory to calculate the probability of virus transmission, and microsimulate the daily prevalence of infection among individuals. The experimental results show that the proposed model in this article efficiently simulates how the virus spreads in the dense crowd in frequent contact under a closed environment. Furthermore, preventive and control measures, such as self-protection, crowd decentralization, and isolation during the epidemic, can effectively delay the arrival of infection peak, reduce the prevalence, and, finally, lower the risk of COVID-19 transmission after the students return to school.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/64a275fa8d598b6bae731321919ee779f40f5359" target='_blank'>Agent-Based Campus Novel Coronavirus Infection and Control Simulation</a></td>
          <td>
            Pei Lv, Quan Zhang, Boya Xu, Ran Feng, Chaochao Li, Junxiao Xue, Bing Zhou, Mingliang Xu
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-22</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Since the first recording of what we now call Covid-19 infection in Wuhan, Hubei province, China on Dec 31, 2019, the disease has spread worldwide and met with a wide variety of social distancing and quarantine policies. The effectiveness of these responses is notoriously difficult to quantify as individuals travel, violate policies deliberately or inadvertently, and infect others without themselves being detected. In this paper, we attempt to interpret and extrapolate from publicly available data using a mixed first-principles epidemiological equations and data-driven neural network model. Leveraging our neural network augmented model, we focus our analysis on four locales: Wuhan, Italy, South Korea and the United States of America, and compare the role played by the quarantine and isolation measures in each of these countries in controlling the effective reproduction number $R_{t}$ of the virus. Our results unequivocally indicate that the countries in which rapid government interventions and strict public health measures for quarantine and isolation were implemented were successful in halting the spread of infection and prevent it from exploding exponentially. We test the predictive ability of our model by matching predictions in the duration 3 March - 1 April 2020 for Wuhan and in the duration 25 March - 1 April 2020 for Italy and South Korea. In the case of the US, our model captures well the current infected curve growth and predicts a halting of infection spread by 20 April 2020. We further demonstrate that relaxing or reversing quarantine measures right now will lead to an exponential explosion in the infected case count, thus nullifying the role played by all measures implemented in the US since mid March 2020.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ebcab70ad3b2030adf82c372682b4b22a3ce678b" target='_blank'>Neural Network aided quarantine control model estimation of global Covid-19 spread</a></td>
          <td>
            Raj Dandekar, G. Barbastathis
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-02</td>
          <td>arXiv: Populations and Evolution</td>
          <td>43</td>
          <td>50</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6729f876e4b30e333caa5b910a395ea6c9d99e5b" target='_blank'>Prediction of the confirmed cases and deaths of global COVID-19 using artificial intelligence</a></td>
          <td>
            Qingchun Guo, Zhenfang He
          </td>
          <td>2021-01-07</td>
          <td>Environmental Science and Pollution Research International</td>
          <td>58</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We discuss the generation of various reproduction ratios or numbers that are very useful to monitor an ongoing epidemic like Covid-19 and examine the effects of intervention measures. A detailed SEIR algorithm is described for their computation, with applications given to the current Covid-19 outbreaks in a number of countries (Argentina, Brazil, France, Italy, Mexico, Spain, UK and USA). The corresponding matlab script, complete and ready to use, is provided for free downloading.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0b82b316c4b3e1559df9ecb58ebb1f3eaacc13c6" target='_blank'>A matlab code to compute reproduction numbers with applications to the Covid-19 outbreak</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Zingano, J. Zingano, Alessandra M. Silva, C. Zingano
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-23</td>
          <td>arXiv: Populations and Evolution</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2a458bf42400f5a1db88355d994344a4366c1969" target='_blank'>Prediction and analysis of COVID-19 daily new cases and cumulative cases: times series forecasting and machine learning models</a></td>
          <td>
            Yanding Wang, Ze-hui Yan, Ding Wang, Meitao Yang, Zhiqiang Li, Xinran Gong, Di Wu, Lingling Zhai, Wenyi Zhang, Yong Wang
          </td>
          <td>2022-05-25</td>
          <td>BMC Infectious Diseases</td>
          <td>37</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bfa69aa90fa19a8ffcf0c734b753f90a2d1bc78c" target='_blank'>Forecasting the long-term trend of COVID-19 epidemic using a dynamic model</a></td>
          <td>
            Jichao Sun, Xi Chen, Ziheng Zhang, Shengzhang Lai, Bo Zhao, Hualuo Liu, Shuojia Wang, Wenjing Huan, Ruihui Zhao, Man Tat Alexander Ng, Yefeng Zheng
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-27</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>61</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7f39d2f9ca6b794919137ad4821054646b6a410c" target='_blank'>Comparative study of a mathematical epidemic model, statistical modeling, and deep learning for COVID-19 forecasting and management</a></td>
          <td>
            Mohammad Masum, M. A. Masud, M. I. Adnan, Hossain Shahriar, Sangil Kim
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-01</td>
          <td>Socio-Economic Planning Sciences</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/31cfcfc96337cc0886b5d5486975903dfd83b2cd" target='_blank'>RLIM: a recursive and latent infection model for the prediction of US COVID-19 infections and turning points</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiang Yu, Lihua Lu, Jianyi Shen, Jiandun Li, Wei Xiao, Yangquan Chen
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-31</td>
          <td>Nonlinear Dynamics</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>