---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-20 06:07:59 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Cell‐level systems biology model to study inflammatory bowel diseases and their treatment options</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Motivation The literature on complex diseases is abundant but not always quantitative. This is particularly so for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), where many molecular pathways are qualitatively well described but this information cannot be used in traditional quantitative mathematical models employed in drug development. We propose the elaboration and validation of a logic network for IBD able to capture the information available in the literature that will facilitate the identification/validation of therapeutic targets. Results In this article, we propose a logic model for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) which consists of 43 nodes and 298 qualitative interactions. The model presented is able to describe the pathogenic mechanisms of the disorder and qualitatively describes the characteristic chronic inflammation. A perturbation analysis performed on the IBD network indicates that the model is robust. Also, as described in clinical trials, a simulation of anti-TNFα, anti-IL2 and Granulocyte and Monocyte Apheresis showed a decrease in the Metalloproteinases node (MMPs), which means a decrease in tissue damage. In contrast, as clinical trials have demonstrated, a simulation of anti-IL17 and anti-IFNγ or IL10 overexpression therapy did not show any major change in MMPs expression, as corresponds to a failed therapy. The model proved to be a promising in silico tool for the evaluation of potential therapeutic targets, the identification of new IBD biomarkers, the integration of IBD polymorphisms to anticipate responders and non-responders and can be reduced and transformed in quantitative model/s.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c655f04a31d1dc93671152d749f2e63985c7bf3" target='_blank'>A systems pharmacology model for inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, Leire Ruiz-Cerdá, I. Irurzun-Arana, I. González-García, A. Vermeulen, J. Gómez-Mantilla, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2018-03-07</td>
          <td>PLoS ONE</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="During acute and chronic infectious diseases hosts develop complex immune responses to cope with bacterial persistence. Depending on a variety of host and microbe factors, outcomes range from peaceful co-existence to detrimental disease. Mechanisms underlying immunity to bacterial stimuli span several spatiotemporal magnitudes and the summation of these hierarchical interactions plays a decisive role in pathogenic versus tolerogenic fate for the host. This dissertation integrates diverse data from immunoinformatics analyses, experimental validation and mathematical modeling to investigate a series of hypotheses driven by computational modeling to study mucosal immunity. Two contrasting microbes, enteroaggregative Escherichia coli and Helicobacter pylori, are used to perturb gut immunity in order to discover host-centric targets for modulating the host immune system. These findings have the potential to be broadly applicable to other infectious and immune-mediated diseases and could assist in the development of antibiotic-free and host-targeted treatments that modulate tolerance to prevent disease. This work was supported in part by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Contract No. HHSN272201000056C to Josep Bassaganya-Riera and funds from the Nutritional Immunology and Molecular Medicine Laboratory. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6533733f66c542d395ec6d41c0b1a59550a2e544" target='_blank'>Systems analysis and characterization of mucosal immunity</a></td>
          <td>
            C. Philipson
          </td>
          <td>2015-07-28</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex inflammatory bowel disease whose pathogenesis appears to involve several immunologic defects causing functional impairment of the gut. Its complexity and the reported loss of effectiveness over time of standard of care together with the increase in its worldwide incidence require the application of techniques aiming to find new therapeutic strategies. Currently, systems pharmacology modeling has been gaining importance as it integrates the available knowledge of the system into a single computational model. In this work, the following workflow for robust application of systems pharmacology modeling was followed: 1) scope definition; 2) species selection and circulating plasma levels based on a search in the literature; 3) representation of model topology and parametrization of the interactions, after literature data extraction and curation, and the implementation of ordinary differential equations in SimBiology (MATLAB version R2018b); and 4) model curation and evaluation by visual comparison of simulated interleukin (IL) concentrations with the reported levels in plasma, and sensitivity analysis performed to confirm model robustness and identify the most influential parameters. Finally, 5) exposure to two dose levels of recombinant human IL10 was evaluated by simulation and comparison with reported clinical study results. In summary, we present a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main ILs involved in CD developed using a standardized methodology and supported by a comprehensive repository summarizing the most relevant literature in the field. However, it has to be taken into account that external validation is still pending as available clinical data were primarily used for model training. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Crohn's disease (CD) is a complex heterogeneous inflammatory bowel disorder. Systems pharmacology modeling offers a great opportunity for integration of the available knowledge on the disease using a computational framework. As a result of this work, a comprehensive repository along with a quantitative systems pharmacology model for the main interleukins involved in CD is provided. This model is useful for the in silico evaluation of biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets and can be adapted to address research gaps regarding CD.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc1b59cbda9a63547cdc28a859ad8c140d010a08" target='_blank'>A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model for the Key Interleukins Involved in Crohn's Disease</a></td>
          <td>
            Violeta Balbas-Martinez, E. Asín-Prieto, Zinnia P. Parra-Guillen, I. Trocóniz
          </td>
          <td>2019-12-10</td>
          <td>The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic and recurrent inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. The elucidation of their etiopathology requires complex and multiple approaches. Systems biology has come to fulfill this need in approaching the pathogenetic mechanisms of IBD and its etiopathology, in a comprehensive way, by combining data from different scientific sources. In combination with bioinformatics and network medicine, it uses principles from computer science, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, medicine and computational tools to achieve its purposes. Systems biology utilizes scientific sources that provide data from omics studies (e.g., genomics, transcriptomics, etc.) and clinical observations, whose combined analysis leads to network formation and ultimately to a more integrative image of disease etiopathogenesis. In this review, we analyze the current literature on the methods and the tools utilized by systems biology in order to cover an innovative and exciting field: IBD-omics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/07cfd2ecf64a7bb7c4f9450a909d9737a93ec2b1" target='_blank'>Systems biology in inflammatory bowel diseases: on the way to precision medicine</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Dovrolis, E. Filidou, G. Kolios
          </td>
          <td>2019-04-03</td>
          <td>Annals of Gastroenterology</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and relapsing disease with multiple underlying influences and notable heterogeneity among its clinical and response‐to‐treatment phenotypes. There is no cure for IBD, and none of the currently available therapies have demonstrated clinical efficacies beyond 40%–60%. Data collected about its omics, pathogenesis, and treatment strategies have grown exponentially with time making IBD a prime candidate for artificial intelligence (AI) mediated discovery support. AI can be leveraged to further understand or identify IBD features to improve clinical outcomes. Various treatment candidates are currently under evaluation in clinical trials, offering further approaches and opportunities for increasing the efficacies of treatments. However, currently, therapeutic plans are largely determined using clinical features due to the lack of specific biomarkers, and it has become necessary to step into precision medicine to predict therapeutic responses to guarantee optimal treatment efficacy. This is accompanied by the application of AI and the development of multiscale hybrid models combining mechanistic approaches and machine learning. These models ultimately lead to the creation of digital twins of given patients delivering on the promise of precision dosing and tailored treatment. Interleukin‐6 (IL‐6) is a prominent cytokine in cell‐to‐cell communication in the inflammatory responses’ regulation. Dysregulated IL‐6‐induced signaling leads to severe immunological or proliferative pathologies, such as IBD and colon cancer. This mini‐review explores multiscale models with the aim of predicting the response to therapy in IBD. Modeling IL‐6 biology and generating digital twins enhance the credibility of their prediction.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/89edceb6395ad6a9a46a561fb37a23bbccd0f06b" target='_blank'>Computational models in inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Pinton
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-05</td>
          <td>Clinical and Translational Science</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Clinical evidence supports the combination therapy of vedolizumab (a gut-selective, anti-lymphocyte trafficking drug inhibiting α4β7-integrin) with JAK 1, 2, 3 inhibitors (JAKi) for Inflammatory Bowel Disease. However, the mechanistic explanation for the improved outcomes in Ulcerative Colitis patients treated with vedolizumab plus JAKi remains unknown and even more in Crohn's Disease (CD). In this study we used an unbiased in silico systems biology and artificial intelligence approach to gain a holistic view of the mechanisms that may underpin the potential benefits of the mentioned combination therapy in the treatment of CD.
 
 
 
 The drugs under study -vedolizumab and JAKi- and CD were characterized at protein level by compiling data from extensive literature search. Through it, human protein interaction networks focused on CD protein effectors were generated and used to construct mathematical models using Therapeutic Performance Mapping System (TPMS) technology (Anaxomics Biotech, Barcelona, Spain). Sampling-based methods were employed to assess the impact on CD of the combined therapy vedolizumab plus JAKi and to describe underlying molecular mechanisms.
 
 
 
 Characterization of CD allowed identifying 4 pathological processes (referred to as motives-M) underlying the manifestation of the disease: intestinal barrier disruption (M1), increased innate immune response (M2), chronic inflammation and Th1/Th17 adaptive immune response (M3) and tissue remodeling (M4) and the molecular effectors or proteins involved in each motive. The combination of vedolizumab and JAKi induced a high degree of reversion of the effectors altered in CD (54.76%), higher than the percentage reverted by the individual drugs. Combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy mainly modulated M3, where both drugs mostly converge although by distinct mechanisms, thus providing additional individual benefits. The combination therapy reverted a great percentage of M3 effectors, for example, CCR9 and FASLG which were increased in CD, were reverted (or downregulated). In addition to M3 modulation, the combination therapy also modulated M1 and M4. In M1, vedolizumab is the one that would provide more complementary mechanisms apart from those that already converge in both drugs. Regarding M4, it seems that main contribution comes from complementarity pathways of the different mechanisms of action of each individual drug.
 
 
 
 The constructed in silico models reveal that the combined vedolizumab plus JAKi therapy could modulate a high array of effectors altered in CD, more than any of the therapies alone, by enhancing the effects of the individual drugs, and provide a mechanistic rationale for employing the combination of these drugs as potential therapy for CD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37afddf4916b5088749544ad27899c601491b710" target='_blank'>P969 Unveiling the molecular mechanisms of the combination of vedolizumab with JAK inhibitors in Crohn’s Disease through a systems biology and artificial intelligence-based approach</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Marín-Jiménez, M. Sierra-Ausín, T. Letosa-Abián, J. Aparicio, C. Montoto-Otero, S. Sánchez-Ramón
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohn's and Colitis</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The immune system is a complex and dynamic network, crucial for combating infections and maintaining health. Developing a comprehensive digital twin of the immune system requires incorporating essential cellular components and their interactions. This study presents the first blueprint for an immune system digital twin, consisting of a comprehensive and simulatable mechanistic model. It integrates 51 innate and adaptive immune cells, 37 secretory factors, and 11 disease conditions, providing the foundation for developing a multi-scale model. The cellular-level model demonstrates its potential in characterizing immune responses to various single and combinatorial disease conditions. By making the model available in easy-to-use formats directly in the Cell Collective platform, the community can easily and further expand it. This blueprint represents a significant step towards developing general-purpose immune digital twins, with far-reaching implications for the future of digital twin technology in life sciences and healthcare, advancing patient care, and accelerating precision medicine.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6641c34ef9f1144419c9d233fad85729b60ada25" target='_blank'>Immune Digital Twin Blueprint: A Comprehensive Mechanistic Model of the Human Immune System</a></td>
          <td>
            Rada Amin, S. Aghamiri, B. L. Puniya, Lauren Mayo, Dennis Startsev, Kashish Poore, Resa M. K. Helikar, T. Helikar
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-12</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease, is a chronic inflammatory disorder that results in ulcers of the colon and rectum without known etiology.Ulcerative colitis causes a huge public health care burden particularly in developed countries.Many studies suggest that ulcerative colitis results from an abnormal immune response against components of commensal microbiota in genetically susceptible individuals.However, understanding of the disease mechanisms at cellular and molecular levels remains largely elusive.In this paper, a network model is developed based on our previous study and computer simulations are performed using an agent-based network modeling to elucidate the dynamics of immune response in ulcerative colitis progression.Our modeling study identifies several important positive feedback loops as a driving force for ulcerative colitis initiation and progression.The results demonstrate that although immune response in ulcerative colitis patients is dominated by anti-inflammatory/regulatory cells such as alternatively activated macrophages and type Ⅱ natural killer T cells, proinflammatory cells including classically activated macrophages, T helper 1 and T helper 17 cells, and their secreted cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-12, interleukin-23, interleukin-17 and interferon-γ remain at certain levels (lower than those in Crohn's disease, another inflammatory bowel disease).Long-term exposure to these proinflammatory components, causes mucosal tissue damage persistently, leading to ulcerative colitis.Our simulation results are qualitatively in agreement with clinical and laboratory measurements, offering novel insight into the disease mechanisms.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/78e59dd74ab5b9b66ead438b5b446f397142aed6" target='_blank'>Agent-Based Network Modeling Study of Immune Responses in Progression of Ulcerative Colitis</a></td>
          <td>
            Dao-rong Wu, Hai-shan Yu, J. Liao
          </td>
          <td>2018-04-27</td>
          <td>Chinese Journal of Chemical Physics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 
 
 Inﬂammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic relapsing inflammatory disorders that result from an inappropriate inflammatory response to the enteric microbiota in a genetically susceptible host. Because the molecular mechanisms of IBD have been the subject of intensive exploration, we assembled the available information into a suite of comprehensive causal biological network models, which offer a better visualisation and understanding of the processes underlying IBD.
 
 
 
 Biological expression language (BEL), which represents biological findings in a computable form was used for scientific text curation. The curated BEL statements were compiled using the OpenBEL framework 3.0.0. Cytoscape was used to visualise and analyse network properties. The network perturbation amplitude methodology was used to score the network models with transcriptomic data from public data repositories.
 
 
 
 The IBD network model suite consists of four independent models that represent signalling pathways contributing to biological processes involved in IBD. In the ‘wound healing’ model, fibroblast growth factor and thymosin β-4-associated signalling pathways emerged as the main routes leading to epithelial cell proliferation and thus to wound repair. Phosphoinositide 3-kinases and carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule-associated pathways were identified in the ‘bacterial colonisation’ model as the primary pathways modulating bacterial adhesion and internalisation. In the ‘immunity’ model, nuclear factor-κB and myeloid differentiation primary response 88 emerged as the main contributors to immune responses. In the ‘epithelial barrier defence’ model, tumour necrosis factor- and interleukin 1-associated signalling cascades were the main routes leading to tight junction disruption and thereby, to increased permeability in the intestinal epithelium. The scoring of publicly available transcriptomic data sets onto these network models demonstrates that the IBD models capture the perturbation in each dataset accurately.
 
 
 
 This work is a continuation of our approach using computational biological network models and mathematical algorithms in order to interpret high-throughput molecular datasets. The IBD network model suite can provide better mechanistic insights of the transcriptional changes in IBD and constitutes a valuable tool in personalised medicine to further understand molecular heterogeneity and individual drug responses in IBD.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ad3789b95779f133e6fb3177487fc1a8274905bc" target='_blank'>P109 Construction of a suite of computable biological network models focused on inflammatory bowel disease</a></td>
          <td>
            P. A. R. Castro, H. Yepiskoposyan, J. Szostak, M. Talikka, J. Hoeng
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-15</td>
          <td>Journal of Crohns & Colitis</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0b6d19e4a519ae3668404d76c1f20c8c5b12e928" target='_blank'>Multiscale modeling of mucosal immune responses</a></td>
          <td>
            Yongguo Mei, V. Abedi, Adria Carbo, Xiaoying Zhang, Pinyi Lu, C. Philipson, R. Hontecillas, S. Hoops, Nathan Liles, J. Bassaganya-Riera
          </td>
          <td>2015-08-25</td>
          <td>BMC Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>34</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>